### 	1.2. Meteorology

|      METAR       |     TAF      | VOLMET  |  ATIS   |  D-VOLMET  |  D-ATIS   |
| :--------------: | :----------: | :-----: | :-----: | :--------: | :-------: |
| Every 30 minutes | Every 3hours | via VHF | via VHF | Available* | Available |

* The VOLMET systems installed at  the international airports of WIEN-SCHWECHAT, INNSBRUCK, KLAGENFURT, SALZBURG, LINZ and GRAZ.

#### 1.2.1. Important Information

- CAVOK is not reported solely by AUTO OBS. Instead, a visual value and "NCD" is  reported.  Comparisons have shown that in rare cases cloud groups  FEW001 or FEW002 are reported by  misdetections of the sensors in the AUTO OBS although there are no clouds. This may affect the  classification of VMC, IMC and LVP if no manual correction is made. AUTO REMOTE OBS can report  CAVOK as well as HUMAN OBS.
- The runway visual range shall  be  reported  throughout periods when either the visibility is less than 1500 M or the runway visual range is less than 2000 M not until less than 1500 M.
- In  METAR not only clouds of operational significance shall be observed and reported due that can lead to a loss of information because clouds above the minimum sector altitude or 5000 FT AMSL may be an advice to icing conditions.
- If deposit of rime is observed the description FZ is used in combination with the letter abbreviations BCFG, PRFG and BR too.
- In Austria special air-reports correspond to aircraft type instead of aircraft identification. Furthermore,  some additional abbreviations and combinations are used to express the elements “location”  and  “level” in Austrian special air-reports to enable the adequate expression also of an area (if the phenomenon is reported by a couple of aircraft) or a straight line (as part of the flight track) additional to a single point and a range of altitudes or a combination of altitude and flight level additional to a single altitude, single flight  level or range of flight levels if so reported by a pilot or an aircraft.

**Clouds**

- Types:

  All cloud types are reported, e.g. OVC010ST

- Height of the cloud base:Not reported for the cloud types: CI, CC and CS; e.g. SCTCI

  hshshs = not reported if in mountainous region tops, but not the cloud base, of a convective cloud is visible e.g. FEWCB

- Supplementary information:

  The indicator RMK is reported in the Autometar for the notification of cloud bases. All supplementary information available is added and distributed internationally. The total amount of cloud is reported at the end of the report using the same abbreviation as for NsNsNs.

- Clouds reported in Autometar:

  After the identification RMK (remark) the data of the ceilometers will be reported as follows:

  BASE XX CLDhhh   e.g.: BASE AB CLD015

  XX ... Location identification of the ceilometer, single- or double-figure.

  hhh ... cloud base as usually in Metar. The used Location identifications are:

  N ... North

  S ... South

  W .. West

  E ... East

  28 ... threshold 28

  AB ...Absam

  KE ...Kematen

  Cloud amount will not be reported.