### 3.2. **Emergency transponder codes**

|            Case             | SSR transponder code |
| :-------------------------: | :------------------: |
|          Emergency          |    Mode A - 7700     |
| Radio communication failure |    Mode A - 7600     |
|    Unlawful interference    |    Mode A - 7500     |

- When an aircraft carries a serviceable transponder, the pilot shall  operate the transponder at all times, regardless of whether the aircraft is within or outside airspace where surveillance is used for ATS  purposes.
- Except as specified in para Emergency procedures below in respect of emergency,  communication failure or unlawful interference, the pilot shall:
- 1. operate the transponder and select codes as individually directed by the ATS unit with which contact is being made; or
  2. unless otherwise directed by ATS, operate the transponder on the last assigned code; or
  3. in the absence of any ATS directions, select SSR-code as follows:
     - IFR-flights   code 2000
     - VFR-flights  code 7000

#### 3.2.1. Emergency procedures

- The pilot of an aircraft  encountering a state of emergency shall set the transponder to code 7700 except when previously directed by ATS to operate the transponder on a  specified code. In the latter case the pilot shall maintain the  specified code unless otherwise instructed.

- Notwithstanding the procedures in para Communication failure below, a pilot may select code 7700 whenever  there is a specific reason to believe that this would be the best course of action.

  ##### Communication failure procedures

- The pilot of an aircraft losing two-way communications shall set the transponder to code 7600.

  **Note:** A controller observing a response on the communications failure code  7600 will ascertain the extent of the failure by instructing the pilot  to SQUAWK IDENT or to change code. Where it is determined that the  aircraft receiver is functioning, further control of the aircraft will  be continued using code changes or IDENT transmission to acknowledge the receipt of clearances issued.

  ##### Unlawful interference with aircraft in flight

- Should an aircraft in flight be subject to unlawful interference, the  pilot-in-command shall endeavour to set the transponder to code 7500 to  give indication of the situation unless circumstances warrant the use of code 7700.

- A pilot, having selected code 7500 and subsequently requested to confirm  this code by ATS, shall, according to  circumstances, either confirm this or not reply at all.

  **Note:** The absence of a reply from a pilot will be taken by ATS as an  indication that the use of code 7500 is not due to an inadvertent false  code selection.