### 	1.2. Meteorology

|      METAR       |      TAF      |    VOLMET     |  ATIS   |   D-VOLMET    |    D-ATIS     |
| :--------------: | :-----------: | :-----------: | :-----: | :-----------: | :-----------: |
| Every 30 minutes | Every 3 hours | Not available | via VHF | Not available | Not available |

#### 1.2.1. Important Information

- For reporting weather phenomena in vicinity of the airport following local rules apply:
  - convective type of cloud (TCU and/or CB) are reported within 30 km radius around ARP,
  - thunderstorm, shower and funnel cloud (VCTS, VCSH, VCFC) in the vicinity are reported when phenomena is observed of detected between 2 km and 16 km radius around ARP,
  - all other weather phenomena in the vicinity are reported when observed or detected between 2 km and 8 km radius around ARP.

- If volcanic activity is observed during the flight, on arrival of a flight at an aerodrome, the completed report of volcanic activity shall be delivered by the aircraft operator or a flight crew member, without delay, to the aerodrome meteorological office.

- The SIGMETs are issued in abbreviations and plain language using ICAO abbreviations and are numbered consecutively for each day commencing at 00:01. The SIGMETs will be issued not more than 4 hours before the commencement of the period of validity. The period of validity is limited to not more than 4 hours from the time of validity.
- Volcanic ash SIGMETs will be issued based on advisory information provided by the relevant VAAC. Volcanic Ash SIGMETs will be issued as soon as practicable but not more than 12 hours before the commencement of the period of validity. For Volcanic Ash SIGMETs their period of validity is limited to not more than 6 hours from the time of validity and will be updated at least every 6 hours.