### 3.2. **Emergency transponder codes**

|            Case             | SSR transponder code |
| :-------------------------: | :------------------: |
|          Emergency          |    Mode A - 7700     |
| Radio communication failure |    Mode A - 7600     |
|    Unlawful interference    |    Mode A - 7500     |

- Select  Code  7700  to  indicate  a  state  of  emergency  unless  ATC  has  previously  directed  the  pilot  to  operate  the transponder  on  a  specified  code.  In  the  latter  case,  a  pilot  may  nevertheless  select  Code  7700  whenever  there  is  a specific reason to believe that this would be the best course of action.
- Select Code 7600 to indicate a state of radio-communication failure.
- Attempt to select Code 7500 to indicate a state of unlawful interference. If circumstances so warrant, Code 7700 should be used instead.
- When an aircraft carries a serviceable SSR transponder, the pilot shall operate the transponder at all times during flight, regardless of whether the aircraft is within or outside airspace where SSR is used for ATS purposes.
- Pilots shall not operate the 'IDENT' feature unless requested by ATS. 

#### 3.2.1 Unlawful interference 

- Unless considerations aboard the aircraft dictate otherwise, the pilot-in-command shall attempt to continue flying on the assigned  track and at the assigned cruising level at  least until able to notify an ATS Unit or within radar coverage.

- When  aircraft  subjected to an action of unlawful interference must depart from its assigned cruising level  without  being  able to make radiotelephony contact with ATS Unit, the pilot-in-command should, whenever possible:

  - attempt to broadcast warnings on the VHF emergency frequency  and  other  appropriate frequency, unless considerations aboard the aircraft indicate otherwise.
  - proceed  at  a  level  which  differs  from  the cruising  levels  normally  used  for  IFR  flight  in the area by 300 M (1000 FT) if above FL 410 or by 150 M (500 FT) if below FL 410;
  - set the transponder to Mode "A" Code 7500 to give indication of the situation unless circumstances warrant the use of code 7700.

  **Note:** A  pilot,  having selected Mode 'A'  Code 7500 and subsequently  requested  to  confirm  this  code  by ATC   shall, according to circumstances, either confirm this or not reply at all. The absence of  a reply from the pilot will be taken by ATC as an indication that the use of Code 7500 is not due to an inadvertent false code selection.