### 	2.4. Communication

| Radiotelephony language |   CPDLC   |
| :---------------------: | :-------: |
|     Finnish/English     | Available |

#### 2.4.1. Radiotelephony language

An aircraft should normally communicate with the Air Traffic Service unit which exercises control in the airspace in which the aircraft is flying.

The languages normally used in air-ground communications are Finnish and English.

#### 2.4.2. The use of CPDLC

- CPDLC services are available for aircraft operating within the airspace of HELSINKI FIR between FL95 and FL660, excluding ATS delegated areas HALTI CTA, MANTO CTA and KVARKEN CTA.

- The following CPDLC services are provided in this airspace:
  - **DLIC** (data link initiation capability)
  - **ACL** (ATC clearances and instructions)
  - **ACM** (ATC communications management)
  - **AMC** (ATC microphone check)

  

- Use of CPDLC in HELSINKI FIR is not mandatory and is conducted at the discretion of ATC. Voice shall remain the primary means of communication in time-critical situations.

- CPDLC messages shall be answered with the least possible delay. If required, e.g. due to the downlink request message having exceeded its time limit, the pilot shall repeat the request via radiotelephony
- Voice read-back is not required for any CPDLC clearance or instruction.
- CPDLC clearance shall not be executed until the flight crew has sent a WILCO message in response to CPDLC clearance or instruction received. If uncertainty arises regarding a CPDLC clearance or instruction, voice communication shall always be used for clarification. 
- CPDLC exchanges within HELSINKI FIR may only be conducted when the aircraft is under the control and responsibility of Helsinki ACC.

#### 2.4.3. CPDLC Flight plan

- Pilots intending to conduct CPDLC communications within HELSINKI FIR shall insert the following in the respective items of their filed flight plan:
  - Item 10a- J1 for CPDLC ATN VDL Mode 2 capable aircraft 
  - Item 18- the indicator CODE/ followed by the aircraft 24-bit address expressed in an alphanumerical code of six hexadecimal characters

#### 2.4.4. CPDLC service limitations

- The CPDLC service is not available within EFHK TMA nor within airspace blocks reserved by APP. The ATC will cancel the data transfer connection in these cases. 
- Pilots are requested to refrain from transmitting downlink messages when operating in the APP frequency even if the CPDLC connection has not been terminated.