### 3.2. **Emergency transponder codes**

|         Case          | SSR transponder code |
| :-------------------: | :------------------: |
|       Emergency       |       A+C 7700       |
|     Radio failure     |         7600         |
| Unlawful interference |        A 7500        |

#### 3.2.1. Important Information

1. Except when encountering a state of emergency, pilots shall operate transponder and select modes and codes in accordance  with ATC instructions. In particular, when entering Tbilisi FIR pilots who having already received specific instructions from ATC to set transponder, shall maintain that setting until otherwise instructed.

2. Pilots of aircraft about to enter Tbilisi FIR who have not received specific instructions from ATC concerning the setting of the transponder shall operate the transponder on mode A+C code 20 (or 2000) before the entry and maintain that code setting until otherwise instructed.

3. If the pilot of the aircraft encountering a state of emergency has previously been directed by ATC to operate the transponder on a specific code, this code setting shall be maintained until otherwise advised. In all other circumstances,the transponder shall be set to mode A+C code 77 (or 7700).

4. Despite the procedure set out in paragraph 1 above, a pilot may select mode A+C code 77 (or 7700) whenever the nature of the emergency is such that this appears to him to be the most suitable course of action.

   **Note:** Continuous monitoring of responses on mode A+C code 77 is provided.

#### 3.2.2. Unlawful Interference

- An aircraft which is being subjected to unlawful interference shall endeavor to notify the appropriate ATS unit of this fact, any significant circumstances associated there with and any deviation from the current flight plan necessitated by the circumstances, in order to enable the ATS unit to give priority to the aircraft and to minimize conflict with other aircraft.

- When an aircraft is unable to notify an appropriate ATS unit about the unlawful interference:

  - Unless considerations aboard the aircraft dictate otherwise, the pilot-in-command should attempt to continue flying on the assigned track and at the assigned cruising level at least until able to notify to an ATS unit or within radar coverage.

  - When an aircraft subjected an act of unlawful interference must depart from its assigned track or its assigned cruising level without being able to make radiotelephony contact with ATS, the pilot-in-command should, whenever possible: 

    ∗ attempt to broadcast warnings on the VHF emergency frequency and other appropriate frequencies, unless considerations aboard the aircraft dictate otherwise. Other equipment such as on-board transponders, datalinks, etc. should also be used when it is advantageous to do so and circumstances permit.

    **Note 1.** — Action to be taken by an aircraft which is intercepted while being subject to an act of unlawful interference is prescribed in ENR1.12.

    **Note 2.** — SSR-equipped aircraft select Mode A, Code 7500 to notify an ATS units of this fact.