### 	2.3. Navigation

| Coordinate system | Minimum RNAV specifications | State minimums |
| :---------------: | :-------------------------: | :------------: |
|      WGS-84       |           RNAV 5            |       No       |

- Within Yerevan and Gyumri TMAs, RNAV1 SIDs and STARs based on GNSS sensors are implemented for IFR traffic in controlled airspace.
- Aircraft not equipped appropriate RNAV require special handling by air traffic control units and in case of necessity will be vectored. Item 18 of the flight plan shall contain NONRNAV.
- The phrase "NEGATIVE-RNAV" shall be included by the pilot immediately following the aircraft callsign whenever initial contact on an air traffic control frequency established.

#### 2.3.1. Coordinate system

- All published geographical coordinates indicating latitude and longitude are expressed in terms of the World Geodetic System - 1984 (WGS-84) geodetic reference datum.
- Projection is expressed in term of Universal Transverse Mercator (UTM).
- An asterisk will be used to identify those published geographical coordinates which have been transformed into WGS-84 coordinates but whose accuracy of original field work does not meet the requirements in ICAO Annex 11, Chapter 2 and ICAO Annex 14.

#### 2.3.2. Time System

- Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) is used by air navigation services and in publications issued by the Aeronautical Information Service. Reporting of time is expressed by the nearest minute, e.g. 12:40:35 is reported 1241. Local time in the Republic of Armenia is UTC plus 4 hours.