### 	1.2. Meteorology

|      METAR       |      TAF      | VOLMET  | ATIS |   D-VOLMET    |    D-ATIS     |
| :--------------: | :-----------: | :-----: | :--: | :-----------: | :-----------: |
| Every 30 minutes | Every 6 hours | via VHF | Nil  | Not available | Not available |

- RVR assessment is made at Sofia, Burgas, Varna and Plovdiv airports. 
- Routine reports  are  issued  at  H+30  and H+60. Local special reports are issued nationally as soon as  possible in case of reaching operational criteria for issuance. At the international airports observation service is provided H24.
- AUTO METAR, AUTO Local Reports and AUTO Local Special Reports are made from sensor data and calculation algorithms. Sensors are located on sites representative for airport measurements. Differences   and limitations of AUTO messages and reports are reflected in the following elements:
  - Visibility;
  - Present weather; and
  - Clouds.
- Terminal aerodrome forecasts  (TAF)  at Sofia, Burgas, Varna, Plovdiv and Gorna Oryahovitsa are with 24  hours  period of validity. They are prepared and disseminated every 6 hours.

- Landing forecasts TREND for the airports Sofia, Varna and Burgas are prepared and disseminated continuously 24/7. For Gorna Oryahovitsa airport  landing  forecasts  are prepared and disseminated  in  the  period  0400-1630 (0300-1530) UTC. For Plovdiv airport landing forecasts are prepared  and disseminated in the period 0400-2000 (0300-1900) UTC.

- Where wind shear conditions in the climb-out or approach phases of flight were reported or forecast   but not encountered, the  pilot-in-command advises the appropriate ATS units as soon as practicable unless the pilot-in-command is aware that the appropriate ATS units have already been so advised by a preceding aircraft.