### 	1.2. Meteorology

|        METAR*        |      TAF**       | VOLMET  |  ATIS   |   D-VOLMET    |    D-ATIS     |
| :------------------: | :--------------: | :-----: | :-----: | :-----------: | :-----------: |
| Every 30, 60 minutes | Every 3, 6 hours | via VHF | via VHF | Not available | Not available |

*At  airports that  are  not operational throughout 24 hours a SPECI report is issued by the meteorological  stations prior to the aerodrome resuming operations, when the re-opening time falls out of the time for issuing a routine METAR.

**TAFs valid for 9 hours are issued every 3 hours, TAFs valid for 24 or 30 hours are issued every 6 hours.

#### 1.2.1 Important information

- At   some   airports,   in   METAR   and   SPECI,   only   for dissemination    at    a    national    level,    complementary information  ("remarks"),  may  also  be  reported  after supplementary   information,   related   to   the   following weather  phenomena:  total  cloud  coverage,  state  of  the sea,  clouds  on  mountains  and  hills,  cloud  conditions  in valleys and/or plains, visibility towards the sea, minimum visibility, maximum visibility, runway threshold wind.
- Surface wind is reported in degrees magnetic  in  METAR (and SPECI where  required) provided at    Albenga/Riviera Airport, Bolzano, Crotone, Foggia/Gino Lisa, Forlì, Padova, Pantelleria, Parma, Reggio  Calabria, Rieti, Roma/Urbe, Salerno/Pontecagnano, Taranto/Grottaglie, Torino/Aeritalia, Venezia/Lido     and Venezia/Tessera aerodromes.
- For METAR and SPECI, the surface wind observations areas far as possible representative of conditions above the whole  runway  where  there  is  only  one  runway  and  the whole  runway  complex  where  there  is  more  than  one runway.
- ATIS is provided at the following aerodromes: Alghero/Fertilia, Bari/Palese, Bergamo/Orio al Serio,  Bologna/Borgo Panigale, Cagliari/Elmas, Catania/Fontanarossa, Firenze/Peretola, Genova/Sestri,  Milano/Linate, Milano/Malpensa, Napoli/Capodichino, Olbia/Costa Smeralda,Palermo/Punta Raisi,  Roma/Ciampino, Roma/Fiumicino,Torino/Casellee Venezia /Tessera 

#### 1.2.2 Wind shear warnings 

- Wind shear warnings give concise information on the observed or, if possible, expected existence of wind shear which could adversely affect aircraft on the approach path or take-off path or during circling  approach between runway level and 500 m (1600  ft) above that level and aircraft on the runway during the landing roll or take-off run. Where local topography has been shown to produce significant  wind  shears at  heights in excess of 500 m(1600 ft) above runway level, then 500 m (1600 ft) shall not be considered restrictive.
- At  any  given  time,  for  each  aerodrome  more  than  one wind  shear  warning  based  on  air  reports  may  be  valid,one  for  each  runway  and  phase  of  flight  (take  off  or landing) where the phenomenon has been reported.
- A  wind shear warning may be cancelled by Italy MFU if during its period of validity aircraft reports related to the same runway  and  phase  of  flight  no  longer  exist  or  the meteorological conditions  giving rise to the emission of the possible forecast wind shear warning are no longer occurring and/or no longer expected to occur.

#### 1.2.3 Aerodrome warnings

- Aerodrome warnings give concise information of observed or forecast meteorological conditions which    could adversely affect  aircraft on the ground, including parked aircraft, and the aerodrome facilities and services.
- Aerodrome warnings  are cancelled when the conditions are no longer occurring and/or no longer  expected to occur at the aerodrome.