### 	2.3. Navigation

| Coordinate system | Minimum RNAV specifications | State minimums |
| :---------------: | :-------------------------: | :------------: |
|      WGS-84       |           RNAV5*            |       No       |

*The established VOR/DME infrastructure ensures that the RNAV 5 is achieved within ATHINAI FIR/HELLAS UIR, with the exemption of areas over the high seas especially in the southern part of the region. However, because of good radar coverage ATC will be able to provide navigational assistance based on radar, when requested by the pilot.

#### 2.3.1. Coordinate system

- Area  of  application  for  the  published  geographical  coordinates  coincides  with  the  area  of  responsibility  of  the Aeronautical Information Service, i.e. the entire territory of Greece as well as the airspace over the high seas encompassed by the ATHINAI FIR/HELLAS UIR in accordance with the regional air navigation agreement.

- An  asterisk  (*)  will  be  used  to  identify those  published  geographical  coordinates  which  either  have  been transformed into WGS-84 coordinates or are not expressed in WGS-84 and whose accuracy of original field work does not meet the requirements in Annex 11, Chapter 2 and Annex 14, Volumes I and II, Chapter 2. In every case, a relevant note follows these data. 

#### 2.3.2. Conditional Routes

- Conditional Routes (CDR) are non-permanent ATS routes. They are designed to complement the permanent ATS route network and to allow flights to be planned on ATS routes, or portions thereof, that are not always available. 
- CDRs are indicated as “CDR1 H24” which is permanently plannable. Due to military or other activities, CDRs maybe closed. The unavailability is published daily in the EAUP/EUUP (European Airspace Use Plan/European Updated airspace Use Plan). The EAUP/EUUP is published on the Network Operations Portal NOP. In the event of a short notice unavailability of a CDR, rerouting around an associated area will be made on ATC instructions.

#### 2.3.3. Time System

- Co-ordinated Universal Time (UTC) is used by air navigation services and in aeronautical information publications issued by the Aeronautical Information Service. Reporting of time, is expressed in hours, minutes, and subject to requirement and availability, seconds of the 24-hour day beginning at midnight. 

  **"Summer Period" - "Daylight Saving Time"** 

- In the AIP and associated publications the expression "summer period" indicates that part of the year in which the "daylight saving  time"  is  in  force.  The  other  part  of  the  year  is  named  the  "winter  period".  Daylight  saving  time  in  Greece  is  UTC plus  3  hours.  The  "summer  period"  is  introduced  every  year  on  the  last  Sunday  in  MAR  at  01:00  UTC  and  it  ceases  on  the  last Sunday in OCT at 01:00 UTC. 