### 3.2. **Emergency transponder codes**

|              Case               | SSR transponder code |
| :-----------------------------: | :------------------: |
|            Emergency            |     Mode A- 7700     |
| Aircraft radio receiver failure |    Mode A - 7600     |
|      Unlawful interference      |    Mode A - 7500     |

#### 3.2.1. Unlawful Interference

- An aircraft which is being subjected to unlawful interference shall endeavour to set the transponder to Code 7500 and notify the appropriate ATS unit of any significant circumstances associated  therewith  and  any  deviation from the  current flight  plan necessitated by the circumstances,  in  order  to  enable the ATS unit to give priority to the aircraft and to minimise conflict  with other aircraft.
- If an aircraft is subjected to unlawful interference, the pilot-in-command shall attempt to land as soon as practicable at the nearest suitable aerodrome or at a dedicated aerodrome assigned by the  competent  authority, unless considerations aboard the aircraft dictate otherwise.
- When an occurrence of unlawful interference with an aircraft takes place or is suspected, air traffic services units shall attend promptly to requests by the aircraft. Information pertinent to the safe  conduct of  the  flight  shall continue to be transmitted and necessary action shall be taken  to  expedite the conduct of all phases of the flight, especially the safe landing of the aircraft.
- When an occurrence of unlawful interference with an aircraft takes place or is suspected, ATS units shall, in accordance with locally agreed procedures, immediately inform the appropriate authority designated by the State and exchange necessary information with the aircraft operator or its designated representative.

#### 3.2.2. Degraded Aircraft Performance

- Whenever, as a result of failure or degradation of navigation,communications, altimetry, flight control or other systems, aircraft performance  is  degraded  below  the  level  required  for  the  air-space  in  which  it  is  operating,  the  flight  crew  shall  advise  the ATC unit concerned without delay. Where the failure or degradation  affects  the  separation  minimum  currently  being  employed,the  controller  shall  take  action  to  establish  another  appropriate type of separation or separation minimum.

**Degradation or failure of the RNAV system**

- When  an  aircraft  cannot  meet  the  specifications  as  required  by the RNAV route or procedure, as a result of a failure or degradation of the RNAV system, a revised clearance shall be requested by the pilot.
- Loss of vertical navigation performance required for reduced vertical separation minima (RVSM) airspace
- The pilot shall inform ATC as soon as possible of any circumstances  where  the  vertical  navigation  performance  requirements for RVSM airspace cannot be maintained. In such cases,the  pilot  shall  obtain  a  revised  ATC  clearance  prior  to  initiating any deviation from the cleared route and/or flight level, whenever possible.  When  a  revised  ATC  clearance  cannot  be  obtained prior  to  such  a  deviation,  the  pilot  shall  obtain  a  revised  clearance as soon as possible thereafter.
- During operations in, or vertical transit through, RVSM air-space  with  aircraft  not  approved  for  RVSM  operations,  pilots shall report non-approved status as follows:
  - at initial call on any channel within RVSM airspace
  - in all requests for level changes; and
  - in all read-backs of level clearances.
- Air traffic controllers shall explicitly acknowledge receipt of messages from aircraft reporting RVSM non- approved status.
- Degradation of aircraft equipment — pilot-reported:
- When informed by the pilot of an RVSM-approved air-craft operating in RVSM airspace that the aircraft's equipment no longer meets the RVSM requirements, ATC shall consider the aircraft as non- RVSM-approved.
- ATC shall take action immediately to provide a minimum vertical separation of 600 m (2 000 ft) or an appropriate horizontal separation from all other aircraft concerned that are operating in  RVSM  airspace.  An  aircraft  rendered  non-RVSM-approved shall normally be cleared out of RVSM airspace by ATC when it is possible to do so.
- Pilots shall inform ATC, as soon as practicable, of any restoration of the proper functioning of  equipment required to meet the RVSM requirements.
- The first ACC to become aware of a change in an air-craft's RVSM status shall coordinate with adjacent  ACCs, as appropriate.