### 	2.3. Navigation

| Coordinate system | Minimum RNAV specifications | State minimums |
| :---------------: | :-------------------------: | :------------: |
|   ETRS89/WGS84    |       RNAV 5, RNP 10        |       No       |



#### 2.3.1. Coordinate system

- The ETRS89 system is linked to the European continental plate and is consistent with the current satellite navigation systems. Its primary features include being: 
  - a precise reference that is very close to WGS84, to be used in geodesy and any other type of navigation in Europe. 
  - a continental reference for cartographic data sets. 
  - recognised as the most appropriate datum for Europe. 
- The REGCAN95 system, as it is not linked to the European continent, requires its own reference system based on the Spanish National Space-Based Geodetic Network, REGENTE, which is comprised of 72 vertices distributed among the seven Canary islands.
- Because the discrepancies between ITRS and WGS84 are not significant, and considering that there is no implementation at all of WGS84 and that the use of any implementation of a system would drag the particular position to that system, it can be concluded that even in the most extreme cases, taking into account the precision of the navigator, the WGS84 and ETRS89 or REGCAN95 systems can be considered to be equivalent.
- An asterisk (*) is used to identify the coordinates that have been transformed into WGS 84 or lack the accuracy requirements of ICAO Annexes 11 or 14.

#### 2.3.2. Time System

- Universal Time Coordinated (UTC) and the Gregorian Calendar are used in the Air Navigation Services and in all documents published by the División de Información Aeronáutica unless otherwise specified. Seasonal periods: 
  - **Summer:** From the last Sunday of March until the Saturday before the last Sunday of October. Local time: UTC + 2 hours. Islas Canarias, local time: UTC + 1 hour. 
  - **Winter:** From the last Sunday of October until the Saturday before the last Sunday of March. Local time: UTC + 1 hour. Islas Canarias, local time: UTC. 
  - **Weekend:** From Friday at 1500 UTC until Monday at 0600 UTC.