### 	2.4. Communication

| Radiotelephony language |   CPDLC   |
| :---------------------: | :-------: |
|         English         | Available |

#### 2.4.1. Important information

**ATN B1 DLS**

- ATN B1 (hereinafter referred as ATN) data link services provision is based on the requirements of the COMMISION REGULATION (EC) No 29/2009 and comprises the following CPDLC services: 
  - DLIC (Data Link Initiation Capability) 
  - ACL (ATC Clearances and instructions) 
  - ACM (ATC Communications Management) 
  - AMC (ATC Microphone check) 
- ATN data link services are available in UIR MADRID (MADRID ACC and SEVILLA ACC) and in UIR BARCELONA (BARCELONA ACC) from FL285. Additionally, and according to coverage and/or availability of VDL2 stations, the following services will be available below that flight level: 
  - DLIC: In FIR/UIR MADRID and BARCELONA. 
  - ACL: In the volumes of airspace of FIR/UIR MADRID and BARCELONA where en-route radar services are provided (MADRID ACC, BARCELONA ACC and SEVILLA ACC), and in TMA BARCELONA and SEVILLA (Barcelona APP and Sevilla APP). 
  - ACM and AMC: In the volumes of airspace of FIR/UIR MADRID and BARCELONA where en-route radar services are provided (MADRID ACC, BARCELONA ACC and SEVILLA ACC), and in TMA BARCELONA, PALMA and SEVILLA (Barcelona APP, Palma APP and Sevilla APP).
- ATN data link services are available in UIR CANARIAS, in the area defined by the lateral limits of TMA CANARIAS to the north of 26N parallel and to the east of 19W meridian from FL285, and in FIR/UIR CANARIAS, within the same lateral limits, below that flight level, according to coverage and/or availability of VDL2 stations.
- ATN CPDLC application is available for CPDLC ATN VDL Mode 2 equipped aircraft and is not available for aircraft with just FANS1/A equipment.

**FANS DLS** 

- FANS data link services comprise ADS-C and CPDLC applications, available in the area of Oceanic ATS service provision of FIR/UIR CANARIAS, subject to the established LOG-ON procedures (see ENR 1.3).

#### 2.4.2 Use of CPDLC

**ATN B1 DLS** 

In order to access ATN CPDLC services, aircraft operators shall include the following information in the ICAO flight plan (see ENR 1.10): 

• Item 10a: J1 for CPDLC ATN VDL Mode 2. 

• Item 18: CODE/ descriptor followed by the aircraft 24-bit address expressed as an alphanumerical code of six hexadecimal characters. 

In case of integrated FANS1/A and ATN B1 equipment, aircraft operators shall include in item 18 the COM/ descriptor followed by INTEGRATED. Aircraft previous registration for ATN CPDLC services access is not necessary.

**FANS DLS** 

In order to access FANS ADS-C and /or CPDLC services, aircraft operators shall include the following information in the ICAO flight plan (see ENR 1.10): 

• Item 10a: J2 to J7 for CPDLC FANS1/A. 

• Item 10b: D1 for ADS-C FANS1/A. 

• Item 18: REG/ descriptor followed by the aircraft registration mark. 

Aircraft previous registration for FANS ADS-C and/or CPDLC services access is not necessary.

- The CPDLC LOG-ON address for Canarias FIR/UIR Data Authority is **GCCC**
- The CPDLC LOG-ON addresses for Madrid FIR/UIR and Barcelona FIR/UIR Data Authorities are: 
  - **LECM**: Madrid FIR/UIR Data Authority for DLS provided by ATS units within Madrid FIR/UIR (Madrid ACC and Sevilla ACC). 
  - **LECB**: Barcelona FIR/UIR Data Authority for DLS provided by ATS units within Barcelona FIR/UIR (Barcelona ACC).

- Aircraft identification for log-on shall be exactly the same as the one indicated in item 7 of the ICAO flight plan. IATA identification or inserting zeros or spaces in the numeric part of identification shall be avoided in order to prevent log-on failure.

- CPDLC log-on shall be made only when entering the corresponding FIR/UIR. For transference between sectors or ATS units belonging to the same Data Authority a new log-on is not necessary. 
- Although an aircraft may be logged to a Data Authority, CPDLC services will not be available until CPDLC connection is completed with CDA (current data authority) confirmation. For ATN connections CDA is automatically confirmed while in FANS connections crews shall respond ROGER to the CDA message “CURRENT ATC UNIT GCCC”.
- In case of an aircraft radio failure, the existence of a CPDLC connection between the pilot and the controller does not exempt pilot or controller from complying with communication failure procedures, except if specific procedures to be applied are published in the AIP.