### 	2.5. Aerodromes

| Low visibility procedures | Breaking action restrictions  |
| :-----------------------: | :---------------------------: |
|      CAT II, CAT III      | minimum friction level - 0.42 |

#### 2.5.1. Runway condition

- If an evaluation proves that the runway friction coefficient is lower than "the minimum friction level", then it will report that the runway “may be slippery when wet” by NOTAM.
- When it reports that the runway "may be slippery when wet", aircraft operators may request additional information to Airport Direction. However, any performance calculation or adjustment that may be required as a result of this information is the responsibility of the aircraft operator.


#### 2.5.2. Low visibility procedures

- Aerodromes at which CAT II and CAT III operations are approved have at least the following facilities available: 
  - ILS in accordance with the operational category defined. 
  - Visual aids suitable for the operations. 
  - RVR meters.
- LVP procedures protect the ILS signals from interference, guaranteeing the integrity of critical and sensitive areas of the ILS facilities. Specific LVP procedure details are provided for each aerodrome in the corresponding AD.
- Taxiways in the critical and/or sensitive ILS areas have coded centre line lights (alternating green-yellow). Pilots must avoid stopping in these areas and indicate “Runway Vacated” once they have exited the runway. 
- During LVP activation, ATC shall inform pilots of the facilities that are out of service or with any type of degradation.

#### 2.5.3. APU usage

- At parking positions that are provided with a 400 Hz power supply: 
  - The use of aircraft APU is forbidden in these positions within a period of 2 minutes after blocks on arrival and 5 minutes before removal of blocks on departure, except for particular applicable conditions of each airport. 
  - The aircraft APU will only be used when neither the 400 Hz facilities nor the mobile units are operative, or when the air conditioning service is required and these air conditioning facilities are not available, except particular applicable conditions of each airport.

