### **3.3. Interception rules**

- The pilot-in-command of an intercepted aircraft must:

  a)  immediately follow the instructions given by the intercepting aircraft confirming the receipt of signals-commands by using appropriate signals-responses;

  b) notify the appropriate ATS unit;

  c)  attempt to establish radio communication with the intercepting aircraft or the appropriate intercept control unit by making a general call on the emergency  frequency 121.5 MHz, and if no contact has been established, repeating the call on the emergency  frequency 243 MHz, giving the aircraft registration number (Identification), position and the nature of the flight;

  d) if an aircraft is equipped with SSR transponder, select Mode A, Code 7700, unless otherwise instructed by the appropriate ATS unit, under which control the aircraft is.

- If radio contact with the intercepted aircraft is established but communication in a common language is not possible, the intercepting aircraft shall use the following phrases:

**PHRASES FOR USE BY INTERCEPTING AIRCRAFT**

| PHRASE    | PRONUNCIATION(1) | MEANING                |
| --------- | ---------------- | ---------------------- |
| CALL SIGN | **KOL**-SA-IN    | What is your call sign |
| FOLLOW    | **FOL**-LO       | Follow me              |
| DESCEND   | DEE-**SEND**     | Descend for landing    |
| YOU LAND  | **YOU LAAND**    | Land at this aerodrome |
| PROCEED   | PRO-**SEED**     | You may proceed        |

**PHRASES FOR USE BY INTERCEPTED AIRCRAFT**

| PHRASE            | PRONUNCIATION (1)     | MEANING                           |
| ----------------- | --------------------- | --------------------------------- |
| CALL SIGN (2)     | KOL-SA-IN (call sign) | My call is (call sign)            |
| WILCO             | **VILL**-KO           | Understood, will comply           |
| CAN NOT           | **KANN** NOTT         | Unable to comply                  |
| REPEAT            | REE-**PEET**          | Repeat your instruction           |
| AM LOST           | AM **LOSST**          | Position unknown                  |
| MAYDAY            | MAYDAY                | I am in distress                  |
| HIJACK (3)        | **HI-JACK**           | I have been hijacked              |
| LAND (place name) | LAAND (place name)    | I request to land at (place name) |
| DESCEND           | DEE-**SEND**          | I require descent                 |

- If any instructions received by radio from any sources conflict with those given by the intercepting aircraft by visual signals or by radio, the intercepted aircraft shall request immediate clarification while continuing to comply with the signals-commands or radio instructions given by intercepting aircraft.

- Aircraft crews must know that en-route flight can be used in case of unforeseen circumstances may cause interception of aircraft.
- Civilian aircraft, if it is not identified or follows an undeclared route. In all cases, the aircraft crew must comply with the instructions given by the interceptor pilot. In such circumstances, aircraft pilots had to transmit information about the situation.
- If circumstances lead to the closure of airspace and there are no reserve routes in case of unforeseen circumstances, the aircraft must remain outside this airspace.
- Pilots must constantly listen to the emergency frequency of 121.5 MHz and the aircraft transponder must be turned on throughout the flight, in the secondary radar coverage area, regardless of whether the aircraft is in this airspace or outside. The transponder must have the code set by the ATS unit, or if the transponder code is not assigned, the code A2000 is established.