### **3.1. Communication failure**

|            Case             | Emergency frequency |
| :-------------------------: | :-----------------: |
| Radio communication failure |      121,5 MHz      |

#### 3.1.1. Important information

- The main communication facility is the use of VHF radio communication facilities, auxiliary – HF radio communication or other possible communication channels.
- In the event of the failure of the main communication facilities and equipment, ATS personnel perform ATS using reserve communications and equipment.
- If there is a sudden communication failure at the primary frequency, the aircraft crews should attempt to establish communication at secondary frequencies, also at the frequencies of other adjacent ATS units or return to the previous frequency. In any case, the crew of the aircraft continues to report on the assigned frequency.

- The information providing to the aircraft crew, which is necessary for the safety can be carried out by the adjacent ATS unit (control unit), located in the coverage area of the surveillance facilities of ATS and / or VHF communication.

- During radio communication failure caused by onboard or ground-based air–ground systems fault, ATS unit controllers act in accordance with the procedure of ATS controller operation. 
- Radio communication is considered lost if repeated calls by each of available communications means are not responded either by the aircraft crew or ATS unit controller within five minutes. 
- In the event of radio communication loss, the aircraft crew shall switch on Distress signal and set “7600” SSR transponder code and take measures to restore communications with the ATS unit either directly or through other aircraft or ATS units using all available means. In these cases, the emergency frequency of 121.5 MHz can be used to transmit information about the decision taken, the location, the altitude of the flight (without waiting for confirmation of its acceptance), as well as to listen instructions and information of the ATS unit controller through radio channels and on VOR and/or NDB frequency. 
- If radio communication cannot be restored, the aircraft crew shall terminate flight operations and land at the departure airport or alternative airport. If a landing at the departure aerodrome (by weather conditions or if the aircraft weight exceeds the landing weight, and there is no condition for fuel drainage) is not possible, the aircraft should be bound for a destination aerodrome at the level indicated in the flight plan or at the last specified by ATS unit controller after a missed approach. 
  If the decision to return to the departure aerodrome or to the alternate aerodrome located in opposite direction is taken, the flight must be performed at the nearest (to the specified, declared in the flight plan) oncoming lower level, but not lower than the safe flight altitude. 
- In the event of ground-based radio facilities failure, the ATS unit controller, in accordance with the technology of work, shall take measures to restore communications using backup facilities and channels or pass ATS functions to an adjacent dispatch ATS unit. 
- When the SSR transponder code "7600" is displayed, the ATS unit controller shall determine the nature of the loss by instructing the crew to turn on transponder into the «identification» mode to change the SSR transponder code or course. Having determined that the on-board radio receiver is functional, further ATS of the aircraft shall be performed using the code changes or sending commands to activate the transponder into the «identification» mode to confirm reception of the issued clearance.