### 	2.3. Navigation

| Coordinate system | Minimum RNAV specifications | State minimums |
| :---------------: | :-------------------------: | :------------: |
|      WGS-84       |           RNAV 5            |       No       |

#### 2.3.1. Coordinate system

- All published geographical coordinates indicating latitude and longitude are expressed in terms of the World Geodetic System - 1984 (WGS-84) geodetic reference datum.
- Projection is expressed in term of Universal Transverse Mercator (UTM).
- An asterisk (*) will be used to identify those published geographical coordinates which have been transformed into WGS-84 coordinates but whose accuracy of original field work does not meet the accuracy requirements in ICAO Annex 11, Chapter 2 and ICAO Annex 14.

#### 2.3.2. Time System

- Coordinated  Universal  Time  (UTC)  and  the  Gregorian  calendar  are  used  by  navigation  services  and  in publications issued by the Aeronautical Information Service. 
- Reporting of time, is expressed to the nearest minute, e.g. 12:40:35 is reported 1241.In the AIP and associated publications the expression “summer period” will indicate that part of the year in which the “daylight saving time” is in force. The other part of the year will be named the “winter period”.
- The “summer period” in Lithuania will be introduced every year on the last Sunday in March at 0100 UTC and it will cease on the last Sunday in October at 0100 UTC. Times applicable during the “summer period” are given in brackets. Local time is:
  - UTC plus 2 HR, during the winter period;
  - UTC plus 3 HR, during the summer period.