### 	2.2. Altimeter setting

|           Position           | Altimeter pressure  |  Altitude report  |
| :--------------------------: | :-----------------: | :---------------: |
|    Below transition level    | QNH, QFE on request |       Feet        |
| At or above transition level |   QNE (Standard)    | Flight Level (FL) |

#### 2.2.1. Important information

- Transition altitude within FIR Wien is established at 10 000FT AMSL. Due to the particular topgraphical  situation arriving aircraft to Innsbruck are exempted from this rule. An individual transition altitude and its resulting level is issued by ATC to each approaching aircraft instead.

- The QFE values are available at any  airport on request only. The reference points for calculation are:

  - the aerodrome elevation according to APT coordinates or
  - for precision approach runways the THR elevation;

  the reference point for the QFE value is included in the transmission.

- QNH and QFE values are transmitted in whole hectopascal only and rounded down to the nearest hectopascal value. 
- The QNH value will be transmitted to the pilot in the taxi clearance. The QNH value will be transmitted to arriving aircraft.
- In the description of  Standard Instrument Departure Routes (SID) check-altitudes are indicated  in  terms of altitudes (FT AMSL) even above the relevant transition altitude if they are below the minimum flight altitude of the ATS route to be followed.
- For minimum flight altitudes above 10000 FT AMSL the lowest usable flight level is calculated according to the atmospheric pressure and in addition to the actual temperature.
- The QNH value is transmitted to an  arriving aircraft upon first contact or at the latest together with the first clearance to an altitude in FT.