### 	2.1. Airspace description

| RVSM Airspace | Airspace classes |
| :-----------: | :--------------: |
| FL290 - FL410 |    A, C, D, G    |

#### 2.1.1. RVSM airspace

- The airspace within the Tehran FIR between FL290 and FL410 inclusive is RVSM airspace. 

- Within this airspace, the vertical separation minimum shall be: 

  - 1000 ft between RVSM approved aircraft;
  - 2000 ft between Non-RVSM approved aircraft and any other aircraft operating in the RVSM airspace.

- Non-RVSM compliant aircraft may not operate between FL290 and FL410 inclusive within RVSM airspace. However, if at least 24 hours prior to departure, specific coordination is carried out with the Tehran ACC and approval for the flight is received, the following Non-RVSM Compliant aircraft may operate at RVSM flight levels in the RVSM airspace:

  - Aircraft is being initially delivered to the State of Registry or Operator; or

  - Aircraft was formally RVSM approved but has experienced an equipment failure and is being flown to a maintenance facility for repair in order to meet its RVSM requirements and/or obtain approval; or 
  - Aircraft is transporting a spare engine mounted under the wing; or 
  - Aircraft is being utilized for mercy or humanitarian purposes; or
  - It is a State aircraft (those aircraft used in military, custom and police services) 

- Tehran ACC will consider suspending RVSM procedures within RVSM airspace when there are pilot reports of greater than moderate turbulence. Within areas where RVSM procedures are suspended, the vertical separation minimum between all aircraft will be at least 2000 ft.

#### 2.1.2. ATS Airspace classification within Tehran FIR

a) Airways above FL 200 are class A, at FL 200 and below are class D.  

*Note: Those portions of airways within TMAs and CTRs have the same classification as TMAs and CTRs.* 

b) CTAs above FL 200 are class A, at FL 200 and below are class D. 

c) TMAs above FL 200 are class A, at FL 200 and below are class C. 

d) CTRs above FL 200 are class A, at FL 200 and below are class D. 

e) ATZs are either class D or G as specified in AIP part 3 AD. Note: Some ATZs are Military. 

f) Airspaces outsides of airways, TMAs and CTRs are class G. 

g) Airspaces classes of B, E and F are not defined in TEHRAN FIR. 

h) Military Traffic Zone (MTZ): Military airspace 

*Note: Military Traffic Zone (MTZ) is an airspace of defined dimensions around a military aerodrome within which responsibility assigned to military ATS unit for the purpose of air traffic service to military and authorized civil traffic.*

#### 2.1.3. Table of cruising levels

**Magnetic track from 000 degrees to 179 degrees IFR Flights**

| FL   | Feet  | Meters |
| ---- | ----- | ------ |
| 010  | 1000  | 300    |
| 030  | 3000  | 900    |
| 050  | 5000  | 1500   |
| 070  | 7000  | 2150   |
| 090  | 9000  | 2750   |
| 110  | 11000 | 3350   |
| 130  | 13000 | 3950   |
| 150  | 15000 | 4550   |
| 170  | 17000 | 5200   |
| 190  | 19000 | 5800   |
| 210  | 21000 | 6400   |
| 230  | 23000 | 7000   |
| 250  | 25000 | 7600   |
| 270  | 27000 | 8250   |
| 290  | 29000 | 8850   |
| 310  | 31000 | 9450   |
| 330  | 33000 | 10050  |
| 350  | 35000 | 10650  |
| 370  | 37000 | 11300  |
| 390  | 39000 | 11900  |
| 410  | 41000 | 12500  |
| 450  | 45000 | 13700  |
| etc. | etc.  | etc.   |

**Magnetic track from 180 degrees to 359 degrees IFR Flights**

| FL   | Feet  | Meters |
| ---- | ----- | ------ |
| 020  | 2000  | 600    |
| 040  | 4000  | 1200   |
| 060  | 6000  | 1850   |
| 080  | 8000  | 2450   |
| 100  | 10000 | 3050   |
| 120  | 12000 | 3650   |
| 140  | 14000 | 4250   |
| 160  | 16000 | 4900   |
| 180  | 18000 | 5500   |
| 200  | 20000 | 6100   |
| 220  | 22000 | 6700   |
| 240  | 24000 | 7300   |
| 260  | 26000 | 7900   |
| 280  | 28000 | 8550   |
| 300  | 30000 | 9150   |
| 320  | 32000 | 9750   |
| 340  | 34000 | 10350  |
| 360  | 36000 | 10950  |
| 380  | 38000 | 11600  |
| 400  | 40000 | 12200  |
| 430  | 43000 | 13100  |
| 470  | 47000 | 14350  |
| etc. | etc.  | etc.   |

