### 	2.5. Aerodromes

| Low visibility procedures | Breaking action restrictions |
| :-----------------------: | :--------------------------: |
|           CATII           |              -               |

#### 2.5.1. Low visibility operations

- **Lower than Standard Category I operation:** means a Category I instrument approach and landing operation using Category I decision height (DH), with a runway visual range (RVR) lower than would normally be associated with the applicable decision height (DH) but not lower than 400 m.
- **Low Visibility Operations (LVO):** Take off, landing and movement area operations when the runway visibility or RVR in any zone is less than 550M, or the visibility is reported as less than 800 M.
- **Low Visibility Procedures (LVP):** means procedures applied at an aerodrome for the purpose of ensuring safe operations during lower than Standard Category I, other than Standard Category II, Category II and III approaches and low visibility take-offs
- **Low Visibility Take-Off (LVTO):** means a take-off with a runway visual range (RVR) lower than 400 m but not less than 75 m
- When the reported meteorological visibility is below that required for take-off and RVR is not reported, a take-off may only be commenced when the flight crew are able to determine that the RVR/Visibility along the take-off runway is equal to or better than the required minimum

**Take-off RVR/Visibility**

| Facilities                             | RVR / Visibility |
| -------------------------------------- | ---------------- |
| Nil (Day only)                         | 500 m            |
| Runway edge lighting and marking       | 400 m            |
| Runway centerline lighting and marking | 300 m            |

**Cat II Operations at Aerodromes**

Promulgation of an aerodrome/runway as available for category II operation means that it is suitably equipped and procedures appropriate to such operations have been determined and applied when relevant. Promulgation implies that at least the following facilities are available: 

- ILS- certificated to relevant performance category. 
- Ground lighting suitable for category promulgated 
- RVR system may be automatic or manned system for category II.

**Implementation of Low Visibility Procedures (LVP)** 

- Low Visibility operation should be initiated by or through the aerodrome control tower. 
- Low Visibility Procedures shall be implemented when: 
  - RVR is less than 800m. 
  - The ceiling is less than 200 feet.

- The Low Visibility Procedures shall start from the moment the RVR value drops less than 800 m. The MET department at the airport shall continuously monitor the trend of RVR which shall be broadcasted and updated from time to time. All airlines shall monitor this trend though the ATIS broadcast for their planning of flight departures. 
- Aerodrome control tower once being notified that LVP are to commence should:
  - Inform Fire station 
  - Include, “Low Visibility Procedures in operation" in ATIS broadcast. 
  - Inform Marshaller 
  - Inform Maintenance lighting unit 
- Landing aircraft should leave RWY as soon as possible by TWY center line lights.
- Intersection take-offs are not permitted except otherwise prescribed by aerodrome operator. 
- Low visibility operation may not be performed while reported MET values are below the relevant minima 
- Cancellation of Low Visibility Procedures: 
  - Weather conditions improve and RVR is 800m or more and the ceiling is 200 feet or higher, and trend is for improvement. 
  - ATIS should be updated including: "Low Visibility Procedures are cancelled”

#### 2.5.2. Braking action

Where only water is present on a runway and periodic measurements indicate that the runway will not become slippery when wet, no measuring will take place, and the runway will be reported on RTF as being WET.