### 	2.2. Altimeter setting

|           Position           | Altimeter pressure  |  Altitude report  |
| :--------------------------: | :-----------------: | :---------------: |
|    Below transition level    | QNH, QFE on request |   Feet, Meters    |
| At or above transition level |   QNE (Standard)    | Flight Level (FL) |

#### 2.2.1. Important information

-  Vertical positioning of aircraft when at, or below the transition altitude is expressed in terms of altitudes, whereas such positioning at or above the transition level, is expressed in terms of flight levels 
- While passing through the transition layer, vertical positioning is expressed in terms of flight levels when ascending and in terms of altitude when descending.

- A QNH altimeter setting is given with the taxiing clearance by aerodrome control tower prior to take-off and in approach clearance.

-  QFE altimeter setting should be made available in approach clearance, on request.
- All instructions passed by air traffic control units at transition altitude or below shall always be expressed in altitudes nevertheless the QNH altimeter setting procedure during approach is used by pilot.
- The transition altitude is 10000 FT (3050 M) and is common for all aerodromes within Serbia and within Montenegro. Value of the transition layer is at least 1000 FT (300 M).
- A transition level is determined for each aerodrome within Serbia and within Montenegro by approach control units according to the following table:

|    QNH **(hPa)**     | 940–976 | 977–1012 | 1013–1049 | 1050–1086 |
| :------------------: | :-----: | :------: | :-------: | :-------: |
| **Transition level** |  FL130  |  FL120   |   FL110   |   FL100   |

#### 2.2.2 Minimum IFR flight altitudes

#### SERBIA

- IFR flight shall be flown at an altitude that is not below prescribed minimum flight altitude, except when necessary for aircraft take-off and landing or when specifically authorized by the Civil Aviation Directorate of the Republic of Serbia.
- If a minimum flight altitude is not prescribed, an IFR flight is conducted:
  - over high terrain or in mountainous areas, at an altitude which is at least 600 M (2000 FT) above the highest obstacle located at a circle radius 8 KM centered on the estimated position of the aircraft;
  - elsewhere, at an altitude which is at least 300 M (1000 FT) above the highest obstacle located at a circle radius 8 KM centered on the estimated position of the aircraft.
- The lowest usable flight level for IFR flights is determined by appropriate air traffic control unit considering the minimum flight altitude and the atmospheric pressure.

#### MONTENEGRO

- Except when necessary for take-off and landing or when specifically authorized by the appropriate authorities, an IFR flight shall be flown at a level that is not below minimum flight altitude established by the State which territory is overflown or, where such minimum flight altitude is not established:
  - over high terrain or in mountainous areas above 1500 M (4921 FT) elevation, at a level which is at least 600 M (2000 FT) above the highest obstacle located at a circle radius 8 KM centered on the estimated position of the aircraft;
  - elsewhere than as specified above, at a level which is at least 1000 FT (300 M) above the highest obstacle located at a circle radius 8 KM centered on the estimated position of the aircraft.
- The lowest usable flight level for IFR flights is determined by appropriate air traffic control unit considering the minimum flight altitude and the atmospheric pressure.
