### 	2.5. Aerodromes

| Low visibility procedures | Breaking action restrictions |
| :-----------------------: | :--------------------------: |
|       CATII, CATIII       |             Nil              |

#### 2.5.1. Low visibility procedures (Serbia)

- At present low visibility operations are available only at BEOGRAD/Nikola Tesla AD (LYBE):
  - CAT ll/lll approach and landing RWY 12; and
  - Low visibility take-off RWY 12 and RWY 30.

- ATC applies special safeguards and procedures for low visibility operations that will become effective in relation to specified weather conditions. These procedures are intended to provide protection for aircraft operating in low visibility and to avoid disturbances to the ILS signals.

- Taxiing aircraft are guided by RTF and assisted by “Follow me” with maximum maneuvering speed of 10 KT. 

  ***Note:*** Surface movement radar is not provided for any aerodrome in the Republic of Serbia.

- A pilot of arriving aircraft is required to make a “RUNWAY VACATED” call on RTF only when aircraft has completely passed the end of the yellow/green colour coded taxiway centre line lights (CAT II/III holding position). 
- Departing aircraft shall not pass CAT II/III holding position unless cleared by ATC and stop bar lights switched off.
- In actual CAT II/III weather conditions, pilots may expect that published facilities provided for low visibility operations are operative. Any unserviceabilities of these facilities will be promulgated by NOTAM, and pilots will be informed of that unserviceabilities by ATC, so that they can amend their minima, if necessary, according to their operations manual.
- Where decision height (DH) and runway visual range (RVR) fall into different categories of operation, the instrument approach and landing operation would be conducted in accordance with the requirements of the most demanding category (e.g. an operation with DH in the range of CAT IIIA but with an RVR in the range of CAT IIIB would be considered a CAT IIIB operation or an operation with a DH in the range of CAT II but with an RVR in the range of CAT I would be considered a CAT II operation).
- Take-off on runway where the RVR is less than 400 M is low visibility take-off.

#### 2.5.2. Breaking action

- Aerodrome operator will report the presence of water on the centre half of the width of the runway to the appropriate ATS unit.
- The presence of water, including the depth and location if applicable, will be reported in the following terms:

  - damp
  - wet
  - water patches
  - flooded.
