### 	2.1. Airspace description

| RVSM Airspace | Airspace classes |
| :-----------: | :--------------: |
| FL290 - FL410 |     C, D, G      |

#### 2.1.1. RVSM airspace

- Except for designated airspace where RVSM transition tasks are carried out, only RVSM approved aircraft and non-RVSM approved State aircraft shall be permitted to operate within the EUR RVSM airspace

- The airspace within the WARSZAWA FIR between FL 290 and FL 410 inclusive is EUR RVSM airspace.

- Within this airspace, the vertical separation minimum is:

  - a) 1000 ft between RVSM approved aircraft,

  - b) 2000 ft between:

    1) non-RVSM approved state aircraft and any other aircraft operating within the EUR RVSM airspace;

    2) formation flights of state aircraft and any other aircraft operating within the EUR RVSM airspace;

    3) an aircraft experiencing a communication failure during flight and any other aircraft, while both aircraft are operating within the EUR RVSM airspace.

- No transitional RVSM airspace is designated within WARSZAWA FIR.


#### 2.1.2. Airspace classes

**CONTROLLED AIRSPACE includes:**

- Airspace from FL 95 to FL 660 - class “C”, excluding flexible airspace elements for which airspace class appropriate for uncontrolled airspace has been specified or which have not been classified.
- TMA, MTMA, CTR, MCTR airspace - below FL 95 - class “C” or “D” .
-  Airspace with ATC delegated to other FIRs.
- Temporary reserved areas (TRAs) for which airspace class appropriate for controlled airspace has been specified.

**UNCONTROLLED AIRSPACE - of class “G” - includes:**

- airspace from GND to FL 95 outside controlled airspace and flexible airspace elements TSAs/TRAs/TFRs/MRTs, unless they were classified as class G airspace 

#### 2.1.3. Free Route Airspace - General Procedures

- Polish Free Route Airspace (POLFRA) comprises the controlled airspace of the Warszawa FIR, from FL 95 to FL 660, and additionally delegation of ATS: S OF DESEN, except the airspaces listed below:
  - all TMA airspaces
  - delegation of ATS: W OF OKX, S OF KŁODZKO, CTA01, CTA02, CTA03, CTA04, CTA05
  - airspaces with horizontal boundaries identical to delegation of ATS: S OF KŁODZKO within the level band FL 195 - FL 245 and FL 460 - FL 660, and W OF OKX within the level band FL 460 - FL 660.
- Eligible flights are all flights that are intending to operate within the vertical and horizontal limits of POLFRA, regardless of the phase of flight (overflights, arriving or departing to/ from local airports or to/from airports situated in close proximity of POLFRA).
- Within POLFRA airspace users are allowed to plan user preferred trajectories using significant points under special conditions and rules laid down in AIP Poland and RAD.
- Within POLFRA relevant significant points are considered as FRA Horizontal Entry (E), FRA Horizontal Exit (X), FRA Intermediate (I), FRA Arrival Connecting (A) and FRA Departure Connecting (D) Points.
- In POLFRA there is no limitation on the number of FRA intermediate points (I) and DCTs used in field 15 of the flight plan.
- Within POLFRA there is no limitation on the maximum DCT distance.
- Flights shall not be planned closer than 5 NM to the published POLFRA border.
- It is mandatory to insert a FRA Horizontal Entry/Exit Point in the flight plan when entering/exiting POLFRA Area except for traffic inbound/outbound FIR EPWW via FIR EPWW TMAs.
- The Flight Level Orientation Scheme (FLOS) applicable within POLFRA corresponds to the Table of Cruising levels.

#### 2.1.4. Minimum Vectoring Altitudes in Warszawa FIR

 **MVA definition**

- In case of guidance of aircraft within controlled airspace, but outside the published IFR procedures, the minimum vectoring altitude (MVA) is established as the lowest usable altitude.
- The MVA sectorization is based on the airspace structure already established, the obstacle situation and the distance from ARP. MVA does not take into account any additional vertical (altitude/height) restrictions, which should be obeyed separately (e.g. prohibited areas). Minimum vectoring altitudes are shown on ATC Surveillance Minimum Altitude Charts.

**MVA - correction for low temperature**

- Flight altitudes indicated by the barometric altimeter may not correspond to the real flight altitudes due to temperature. Temperatures below the Standard Temperature (ISA) lead to lower real flight altitudes. As a result, to provide the required obstacle clearance, the MVA values are calculated after taking into account altitude correction due to temperature.
- In case of low temperatures below -10°C, ATC services will apply additional correction to the published minimum vectoring altitudes.

#### 2.1.5. Area Minimum Altitude (AMA)

- AMA is the lowest altitude to be used under instrument meteorological conditions (IMC) which provides a minimum obstacle clearance (MOC) over all known air navigation obstacles in the specified area. AMA provides a minimum obstacle clearance of 1000 ft or 2000 ft in mountainous areas and is rounded up to the next 100 ft. In case of natural obstacles (e.g. mountains, hills) or terrain elevations, an additional safety margin of 329 ft is applied to account for the possibility of the existence of man-made obstacles which, because of their height, do not have to be reported and published.

- AMA is calculated on the basis of known and reported air navigation obstacles, which have been published and also on the basis of elevations obtained from the numerical terrain model DTED 2 for the area of Poland and/or from the Reference Map of Poland 1:500 000

- AMA is calculated for each quadrangle of the cartographic grid formed by meridians and parallels every 30' on maps with a scale of 1:500 000 and every 1° on maps with a scale of 1:1 000 000 or less. In areas adjacent to the border of EPWW FIR, where the quadrangle of the cartographic grid covers a part of EPWW FIR and a part of a neighbouring FIR, AMA is calculated solely on the basis of obstacle information (terrain elevations, natural and man-made obstacles) from within EPWW FIR.

- Above open sea waters (the Baltic Sea area) an AMA equal to 1500 ft (15) is established. This value provides a MOC of 1000 ft taking into account the possibility of existence of water vessels and technical installations not greater than 500 ft.

-  On aeronautical charts, AMA is expressed in feet and is represented by digits of two sizes. The larger digit represents thousands of feet, while the smaller digit represents hundreds and tens of feet.

  Example: 25= 2500 ft, 74=7400 ft

#### 2.1.6. Table of cruising levels

**Magnetic track from 000 degrees to 179 degrees IFR Flights**

|  FL  | Meters | Feet  |
| :--: | :----: | :---: |
|  10  |  300   | 1000  |
|  30  |  900   | 3 000 |
|  50  | 1 500  | 5 000 |
|  70  | 2 150  | 7 000 |
| 090  |  2750  | 9000  |
| 110  |  3350  | 11000 |
| 130  |  3950  | 13000 |
| 150  |  4550  | 15000 |
| 170  |  5200  | 17000 |
| 190  |  5800  | 19000 |
| 210  |  6400  | 21000 |
| 230  |  7000  | 23000 |
| 250  |  7600  | 25000 |
| 270  |  8250  | 27000 |
| 290  |  8850  | 29000 |
| 310  |  9450  | 31000 |
| 330  | 10050  | 33000 |
| 350  | 10650  | 35000 |
| 370  | 11300  | 37000 |
| 390  | 11900  | 39000 |
| 410  | 12500  | 41000 |
| 450  | 13700  | 45000 |
| etc. |  etc.  | etc.  |

**Magnetic track from 180 degrees to 359 degrees IFR Flights**

|  FL  | Meters | Feet  |
| :--: | :----: | :---: |
|  20  |  600   | 2000  |
|  40  | 1 200  | 4 000 |
|  60  | 1 850  | 6 000 |
| 080  |  2450  | 8000  |
| 100  |  3050  | 10000 |
| 120  |  3650  | 12000 |
| 140  |  4250  | 14000 |
| 160  |  4900  | 16000 |
| 180  |  5500  | 18000 |
| 200  |  6100  | 20000 |
| 220  |  6700  | 22000 |
| 240  |  7300  | 24000 |
| 260  |  7900  | 26000 |
| 280  |  8550  | 28000 |
| 300  |  9150  | 30000 |
| 320  |  9750  | 32000 |
| 340  | 10350  | 34000 |
| 360  | 10950  | 36000 |
| 380  | 11600  | 38000 |
| 400  | 12200  | 40000 |
| 430  | 13100  | 43000 |
| 470  | 14350  | 47000 |
| etc. |  etc.  | etc.  |

