### 	2.2. Altimeter setting

|           Position           | Altimeter pressure  |  Altitude report  |
| :--------------------------: | :-----------------: | :---------------: |
|    Below transition level    | QNH, QFE on request |       Feet        |
| At or above transition level |   QNE (Standard)    | Flight Level (FL) |

#### 2.2.1. Important information

- A common transition level will be established for the whole WARSZAWA FIR. A transition level of FL 80 or FL 90 will be established depending on the atmospheric pressure distribution within the WARSZAWA FIR.

- The current value of QNH and the current transition level are given either in ATS instructions or in ATIS broadcasts.

- Where an aircraft’s Mode C displayed flight level which differs from the cleared flight level by 90 m (300 ft) or more, the controller should ask the pilot to check the altimeter setting and to confirm the aircraft’s present flight level.

- The QNH altimeter setting is obligatory for flights at or below the transition altitude of 6500 ft within the WARSZAWA FIR airspace.

- Within every terminal control area (TMA/MTMA) it is obligatory to set the altimeters to the common QNH pressure, calculated for the main aerodrome within the TMA/MTMA. The common QNH is given either by the relevant ATC unit or ATIS broadcast. The table below shows aerodromes for which the QNH is the common QNH for the entire TMA/MTMA.

  | TMA/MTMA                 | Lotnisko/Aerodrome |
  | ------------------------ | ------------------ |
  | TMA BYDGOSZCZ            | EPBY               |
  | TMA GDAŃSK               | EPGD               |
  | TMA LUBLIN               | EPLB               |
  | TMA ŁÓDŹ                 | EPLL               |
  | LTMA KRAKÓW, sector EPKK | EPKK               |
  | LTMA KRAKÓW, sector EPKT | EPKT               |
  | TMA OLSZTYN              | EPSY               |
  | TMA POZNAŃ NORTH         | EPPO               |
  | TMA POZNAŃ SOUTH         | EPWR               |
  | TMA RADOM                | EPRA               |
  | TMA RZESZÓW              | EPRZ               |
  | TMA SZCZECIN             | EPSC               |
  | TMA WARSZAWA             | EPWA               |
  | TMA ZIELONA GÓRA         | EPZG               |
  | MTMA DĘBLIN              | EPDE               |
  | MTMA ŁASK                | EPLK               |
  | MTMA MALBORK             | EPMB               |
  | MTMA MIROSŁAWIEC         | EPMI               |
  | MTMA MIŃSK MAZOWIECKI    | EPMM               |
  | MTMA POWIDZ              | EPPW               |
  | MTMA RADOM               | EPRA               |
  | MTMA ŚWIDWIN             | EPSN               |

- The QFE value for the indicated aerodrome or the threshold of RWY in use will be given by the ATS unit at the request of the crew.

- While flying within military aerodrome traffic zones (MCTR/MTMA) the QNH setting is obligatory unless otherwise published in local regulations.

- Aircraft entering a TMA/MTMA at or below the transition altitude of 6500 ft shall set the altimeters to the common QNH at the TMA/MTMA boundary.
- Aircraft descending within a TMA/MTMA shall set the altimeters to the common QNH while crossing the transition level.
- If the QNH for the destination aerodrome differs from the common QNH for the TMA/MTMA, the landing aircraft shall change the altimeters to the local QNH of the landing aerodrome at the border of CTR/MCTR/ATZ of the aerodrome or immediately before commencing the final approach.
- The aircraft taking-off and intending to enter a TMA/MTMA shall set the altimeters to the common QNH not later than at the TMA/ MTMA boundary.
- The aircraft crossing in climb the transition level of 6500 ft shall change the altimeter setting from the common QNH to the standard pressure (1013.2 hPa).
