### 	2.4. Communication

|  Radiotelephony language   |   CPDLC   |
| :------------------------: | :-------: |
| Polish, English on request | Available |

#### 2.4.1. Data link service – Controller-Pilot Data Link Communication (CPDLC)

- The controller-pilot data link communication (CPDLC) application provides a means of communication between the controller and the pilot, using data link for ATC communication. This application includes a set of clearance/information/request message elements which correspond to the phraseologies used in the radiotelephony environment. CPDLC services are available for ATN equipped aircraft for communication with Warszawa ACC, in the EPWW FIR between FL 285 and FL 660.
- The following CPDLC services are provided in this airspace:
  - DLIC (data link initiation capability);
  - ACL (ATC clearances and instructions);
  - ACM (ATC communications management);
  - AMC (ATC microphone check).
- The use of CPDLC is not mandatory and is conducted at the discretion of ATC or at the initiative of the pilots concerned. If the pilot or ATC is of the opinion that CPDLC should no longer be used in the given circumstances, CPDLC shall be discontinued or terminated and the other party shall be informed about this by voice communication.
- The ATN VDL Mode 2 CPDLC is supported only. Connection with FANS-only equipped aircraft is not possible.

**CPDLC Use**

- In the area of responsibility of Warszawa ACC, voice communication and radiotelephony instructions have priority over CPDLC instructions at all times. A clearance requested by the pilot via CPDLC should be issued via CPDLC. A clearance requested by the pilot via radiotelephony should be issued via radiotelephony. 

- Clearances shall not be executed until the WILCO message has been sent back. If uncertainty arises regarding a data link message, voice communication shall always be used. CPDLC exchanges with the Warszawa ACC shall only be conducted when the aircraft is on the frequency of Warszawa ACC.

**DLIC Log-on**

- The data link address for Warszawa ACC is EPWW.
- CPDLC shall be established in sufficient time to ensure that the aircraft is communicating with the appropriate ATC unit. Log-on shall be initiated by the pilot. Pilots shall log-on using their ICAO call sign as filed in the flight plan. Pilots shall not use a two-letter IATA flight ID or insert a leading zero [0] into a call sign, as these actions will result in a failed log-on.

- For aircraft entering the Warszawa FIR from a non-CPDLC capable ATC centre log-on should be initiated 15 minutes prior to entry
- In case of transfer from a CPDLC capable ATC centre, the logon process is performed automatically and for transfer of communication ACM service will be used. For aircraft departing from an aerodrome within the Warszawa FIR the log-on should be initiated upon transfer to Warszawa ACC. Log-on may also be initiated in advance, although the actual message exchange is not expected until transfer to ACC. Irrespective of the number of Warszawa ACC sectors entered during flight, only one log-on per flight is required.

 **CPDLC Services**

 ATC Clearances and Instructions (ACL)

- Pilots may receive the uplink messages via data link. Pilots may request level change (climb or descent) or clearance direct to a specific point on their route via data link.

ATC Communication Management (ACM)

- The pilot response to an ATC instruction to change frequency shall be WILCO. If the pilot is unable to comply with this data link instruction, he shall revert to voice communication to inform ATC. 
- When an aircraft is transferred by data link to an adjacent sector/ ATSU, the pilot shall acknowledge the instruction by WILCO, and shall then contact the next sector/ATSU by voice communication on the frequency given.

ATC Microphone Check (AMC)

- A Check Stuck Microphone [requency] instruction may be sent by ATC in cases where an aircraft is inadvertently blocking a radio frequency.
- If the Check Stuck Microphone instruction relates to the radio telephony frequency currently being used, then the pilot shall check that their radio equipment is not causing the blockage. If the Check Stuck Microphone instruction does not relate to the radio telephony frequency being used, then no further action by the pilot is required.

**Message restrictions**

Pilot requests via CPDLC should not be send using free text messages.

**Log-off**

Log off is performed by ATC on exiting from the Warszawa ACC airspace (transfer do adjacent ACC unit or APP). For the transfer of communication between Warszawa ACC and adjacent CPDLC-equipped ATC unit, the ACM service will be used.

**CPDLC failure**

- In the case of a CPDLC failure, CPDLC clearances that have not yet been confirmed shall be repeated over radiotelephony and/or confirmed.
- If the pilot or ATC is of the opinion that CPDLC should no longer be used in the given circumstances, CPDLC shall be discontinued and the other party shall be informed about this by voice communication.

- In the case of a planned shutdown or an unexpected failure of the CPDLC system, ATC will instruct all aircraft connected via data link to return to voice communication. In the case of an on-board failure of CPDLC, the pilot shall return to voice communication and inform the ATC.

**CPDLC messages**

- The controller or the pilot shall construct CPDLC messages using the defined message set. The following uplink clearances an instructions may be expected by pilots using CPDLC:
  - UNABLE 
  - STANDBY 
  - MAINTAIN [level] 
  - CLIMB TO [level] 
  - DESCEND TO [level] 
  - PROCEED DIRECT TO [position] 
  - MAINTAIN [speed] 
  - CONTACT [unitname] [frequency] 
  - SQUAWK [code] 
  - CHECK STUCK MICROPHONE [frequency] 
  - ERROR [errorInformation] 
  - NEXT DATA AUTHORITY [facility] 
  - SERVICE UNAVAILABLE - [freetext] 
  - FLY HEADING [degrees] 
  - LOGICAL ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

- The following downlink requests, answers or information may be sent by pilots using CPDLC with Warszawa ACC:
  - WILCO 
  - UNABLE 
  - STANDBY 
  - REQUEST [level] 
  - REQUEST CLIMB TO [level] 
  - REQUEST DESCENT TO [level] 
  - REQUEST [speed mach/knots] 
  - REQUEST DIRECT TO [position] 
  - ERROR [errorInformation] 
  - NOT CURRENT DATA AUTHORITY 
  - DUE TO WEATHER 
  - DUE TO AIRCRAFT PERFORMANCE - [freetext]
  - CURRENT DATA AUTHORITY 
  - LOGICAL ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
  - NOT AUTHORIZED NEXT DATA AUTHORITY

- CPDLC shall only be used for non-time critical requests, i.e. requests that do not require the immediate reaction of the controller. Nevertheless, as in radiotelephony CPDLC messages shall be answered with the least possible delay. If the downlink request is cut off because the time limit was exceeded, the pilot should also repeat the request via radiotelephony.
