### 	2.5. Aerodromes

| Low visibility procedures | Breaking action restrictions |
| :-----------------------: | :--------------------------: |
|   CAT II/III, take-offs   |             Nil              |

#### 2.5.1. Low visibility procedures

##### 2.5.1.1.**Low visibility procedures (LVP)**

- The Low Visibility Procedures are applied for the protection of aircraft operating in such weather conditions and to ensure the required quality of ILS signals. When Low Visibility Procedures are in force increased separation will be used by ATC.
- In cases when the safety of aircraft operating in manoeuvring area can not be ensured or when disturbances to ILS signals can not be avoided, the Category II/III approaches can not be carried out and this will be notified by NOTAM, ATIS or ATC.

##### 2.5.1.2.**Low visibility take-off (LVTO)**

- Aerodromes that do not have Category II or III facilities, apply Low Visibility Procedures in order to enable take-offs in limited visibility conditions. For the details of Low Visibility Procedures for Take-off at aerodromes, see local aerodrome regulations at the appropriate aerodrome.
- Take-offs when RVR is below 400 M are permitted only at aerodromes, which have Low Visibility Procedures approved by authority and procedures are in use during the take-off.
- At the aerodromes, which do not have approved Low Visibility Procedures, take-offs are allowed when RVR is below 550 M - 400 M requiring at least visibility RVR 400 M is fulfilled on every third of the runway, excluding intersection take-offs and part of the runway that is behind aircraft take-off position.
- Aerodromes, where take-offs are not allowed when RVR is below 550 M due to technical or operational reasons, notify the restrictions thru AIS. Take-offs are allowed when RVR is 550 M on every third of the runway, excluding intersection take-offs and part of the runway that is behind aircraft take-off position.
- Due to secondary power switch-over time, take-offs when Runway Visual Range (RVR) is below 550 M are not allowed at some of the aerodromes. For the restriction, see local aerodrome regulations at the appropriate aerodrome


#### 2.5.2. Runway condition

- A runway is determined as being slippery when wet when the runway is wet and the friction coefficient is less than 0.50.
- The precision of the reported values is 20 millimetres for dry snow, 10 millimetres for wet snow and 3 millimetres for slush (see para 2.5.4 for definitions). The mean depth is calculated for each one-third of the runway (see para 2.5.2) and reported in millimetres.
-  If the mean depth of the deposit is not measurable or operationally not significant "XX" will be entered in item G of the SNOWTAM format.

#### 2.5.3. Reduced runway separation minima

- Reduced runway separation minima between aircraft using the same runway according to ICAO Doc 4444 Procedures for Air Navigation Services - Air Traffic Management have been approved for some aerodromes. The use of procedures, see the appropriate aerodrome. ATC may use the procedures as described below.
- Reduced runway separation minima shall only be applied during the hours of daylight from 30 minutes after local sunrise to 30 minutes before local sunset.
- Reduced runway separation minima shall not apply between a departing aircraft and a preceding landing aircraft.