### 3.2. **Emergency transponder codes**

|            Case             | SSR transponder code |
| :-------------------------: | :------------------: |
|          Emergency          |    Mode A - 7700     |
| Radio communication failure |    Mode A - 7600     |
|    Unlawful interference    |    Mode A - 7500     |

- select  Code  7700  to  indicate  a  state  of  emergency  unless  ATC  has  previously  directed  the  pilot  to  operate  the transponder  on  a  specified  code.  In  the  latter  case,  a  pilot  may  nevertheless  select  Code  7700  whenever  there  is  a specific reason to believe that this would be the best course of action; 

- select Code 7600 to indicate a state of radio-communication failure;

- attempt to select Code 7500 to indicate a state of unlawful interference. If circumstances so warrant, Code 7700 should be used instead.

  **Note:** If a pilot has selected Mode A Code 7500 and has been requested to confirm this code by ATC, the pilot should, according to circumstances, either confirm this or not reply at all. If the pilot does not reply, ATC should take this as confirmation that the use of Code 7500 is not an inadvertent false code selection. 

#### 3.2.1 Unlawful interference 

- When an aircraft subjected to an act of unlawful interference must depart from its assigned track or its assigned cruising level without being able to make a radiotelephony contact with ATS,the pilot-in-command should, whenever possible: 

  a)     attempt  to  broadcast  warnings  on  the  VHF emergency  frequency  and  other  appropriate  frequencies,  unless  considerations aboard  the  aircraft  dictate  otherwise.  Other  equipment such  as  on-board  transponders,  data  links,  etc.  should  also  be  used when it is advantageous to do so and circumstances permit; and 

  b)     proceed  in  accordance  with  applicable  special  procedures  for  in-flight  contingencies,  where  such  procedures  have  been established and promulgated in ICA0 Doc 7030 - Regional Supplementary Procedures; or 

  c) if no applicable regional procedures have been established, proceed at a level which differs from the cruising levels normally used for IFR flight in the area by 300 M (1000FT) if above FL 290 or by 150 M (500 FT) if below FL 290.