### 3.2. **Emergency transponder codes**

|            Case             | SSR transponder code |
| :-------------------------: | :------------------: |
|          Emergency          |    Mode A - 7700     |
| Radio communication failure |    Mode A - 7600     |
|    Unlawful interference    |    Mode A - 7500     |

- In emergency situations, the pilot of the aircraft must adjust the transponder immediately to Mode A/3, code 77 (or 7700), except if he receives other orders from the air transit services unit.
- In the case of the failure of the radio receiver of the aircraft, the pilot must select Mode A/3, code 76 (or 7600) and will follow the established procedures; the subsequent control of the aircraft will be based on said procedures.
- With the exceptions that the Dirección General de Aviación Civil can concede, the use of the SSR transponder is mandatory for all aircraft that are airborne: 
  - Inside the FIR/UIR Madrid, Barcelona and Canary Islands at FL145 or above; 
  - Inside the Terminal Control Areas of Madrid, Zaragoza, Sevilla, Barcelona, Palma de Mallorca, Valencia with their delegated airspace (see ENR 2.2) and Canary Islands at whatever level; and 
  - Inside the zones that are declared for mandatory use of the transponder (TMZ). 
- The SSR transponders must have, at least, the A/3 Mode and have the capacity for 4096 response codes, except for those cases that have been specifically authorized that must have the capacity for 64 response codes. The pilots will turn on their SSR transponders and will select the modes and codes complying with the ATC instructions, and in particular the automatic transmission of altitude of pressure device in Mode C if it has it, and they will keep them this way until they are told otherwise.
- In the case that the transponder fails, the Air Traffic Services will do everything possible to facilitate the continuation of the flight according to the FPL. However, under certain traffic situations, not only in the terminal but also en route, the continuation of the flight may not be possible, especially when the breakdown takes place right after take-off. If this occurs, the pilot may be asked to return to the aerodrome he left from or to go to another aerodrome suitable for the operator and the Air Traffic Services. In all events, the pilot needs permission from Air Traffic Services to fly in an airspace where its use is obligatory.

#### 3.2.1 Unlawful interference 

- An aircraft which is being subjected to unlawful interference shall endeavour to set the transponder to Code 7500 and notify the appropriate ATS unit of any significant circumstances associated therewith and any deviation from the current flight plan necessitated by the circumstances, in order to enable the ATS unit to give priority to the aircraft and to minimise conflict with other aircraft.
- If the aircraft is equipped with ADS-B or ADS-C, it shall select the appropriate emergency functionality, if available, unless otherwise instructed by the appropriate air traffic services unit. In addition, the pilot may transmit the emergency message by means of Controller-Pilot Data Link Communications (CPDLC).
- If an aircraft is subjected to unlawful interference, the pilot-in-command shall attempt to land as soon as practicable at the nearest suitable aerodrome or at a dedicated aerodrome assigned by the competent authority unless considerations aboard the aircraft dictate otherwise.