### 3.2. **Emergency transponder codes**

|         Case          | SSR transponder code |
| :-------------------: | :------------------: |
|       Emergency       |    Mode A+C 7700     |
|     Radio failure     |    Mode A+C 7600     |
| Unlawful interference |     Mode A 7500      |

- Emergency situations, the pilot shall maintain the last assigned code, unless otherwise instructed.
- The pilot may select Mode A, Code 7700, whenever he believes that would be the best course of action, in view of the nature of the situation.
- A pilot experiencing the radio communication failure shall operate the SSR transponder to Mode A, Code 7600 and take actions prescribed for such a situation.
- The pilot of an aircraft being subject to unlawful interference, shall endeavour to set Mode A, Code 7500, to give the indication of the situation, unless circumstances justify the use of Code 7700. 
- When SSR transponder operates incorrectly on Mode C, the pilot shall, unless otherwise instructed, immediately inform ATC unit concerned and switch off altitude reporting and transmit the framing pulses of  the Mode C response. Alternately, he shall switch off completely Mode C if the design of the SSR transponder does not permit procedures stated above and maintain the Mode A transmission. 
- If the design of  the SSR transponder does not perm it Modes A and C being switched off separately, the  SSR transponder shall not be switched off  without explicit instruction by ATC, to ensure continuous transmission of identification and position information via Mode A.
- When entering the area of responsibility of an ATC unit, the pilot shall maintain undertaken measures and inform the ATC accordingly.

#### 3.2.1. Unlawful Interference

- The following procedures are intended for use by aircraft when unlawful interference occurs and the aircraft is unable to notify an ATS unit of this fact.
- The aircraft that became the object of unlawful inference shall try to report the event to a corresponding ATC, informing it about all important circumstances and all deviations from the flight plan that are connected with the event. It shall be done to enable the ATC to guarantee consecutive actions as far as the operations intended to help the endangered aircraft are concerned and to lessen the conflicting situation between this and the rest of aircraft.
- Aircraft which are equipped with transponder shall set, whenever it is possible, the A mode 7500 code.
- If the aircraft commander cannot report the events to a corresponding air traffic control unit and there are no additional circumstances he should try to continue the flight along the flight planned route at the designated cruising level at least till the moment he will be able to report to a corresponding ATC or will enter the area under radar control.
- When an aircraft is forced to deviate from its established way or the established cruising level and being unable to establish radiotelephony communication with the ATC and if it is possible the aircraft commander should:
  - try to pass the warning on the emergency VHF frequency or any other corresponding frequencies, except the cases when it is impossible to do it. When it is necessary and there are favourable circumstances, it is recommendable to use any other equipment (the transponder, a data transfer line and other), and 
  - to  continue  the  flight  using  the  corresponding  special  operational  procedure  when  flying  under  specific circumstances  in  the  case  when  such  procedures  are  approved  and  published  in  the  ICAO  Doc  7030 (Supplementary Regional Procedures); or
  - if there are no corresponding regional rules, to continue the flight at such level, which would differ from the cruising levels ordinary used for IFR flights in this area by 300 M (1 000 FT), if the flight is above FL290 or by 150 M (500 FT) if the flight is below FL290.
