### 	1.2. Meteorology

|       METAR       |      TAF      | VOLMET |  ATIS   |   D-VOLMET    |    D-ATIS     |
| :---------------: | :-----------: | :----: | :-----: | :-----------: | :-----------: |
| Every 30 minutes* | Every 3 hours |  Nil   | via VHF | not Available | not Available |

*At AL AIN / INTERNATIONAL (OMAL), RAS AL KHAIMAH / INTERNATIONAL (OMRK), FUJAIRAH / INTERNATIONAL (OMFJ) only hourly METARs are provided. 

#### 1.2.1. Important information

####  METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS AND REPORTS

- Meteorological data is obtained from continuously monitored remote sensing equipment integrated with manually observed data and displayed in airport meteorological offices, relevant Air Traffic Control and Information offices.

- Low level temperature inversion is frequently present at night. Take - off information on low level inversion provided when requested with flight meteorological documentation.
  A continuously updated 10 - hour surface and 1000 FT forecast for winds and temperature is produced by OMAA meteorological office which can show any occurring surface inversions. Document is available with all flight folders.

-  Wind shear warnings are issued:

  1. When wind shear is reported by aircraft.

  2. When the meteorological situation indicates a strong probability of wind shear.

- **IRVR reporting procedures**

  IRVR reporting is initiated when:

  1. The regular meteorological report shows visibility to be 1500 meters or less.
  2. The IRVR value is observed to be 1500 meters or less.

  Note: In METARs, only touchdown values are given.

- IRVR values will be passed to all aircraft at the beginning of each approach for landing and thereafter, any significant change in the RVR is to be passed to incoming aircraft until they have landed. A significant change is defined as a change in value of one increment or more. The current RVR value will also be passed to aircraft before take - off.

- When reporting all three positions they will be individually identified, e.g.:
  "RVR ALPHA 650 - BRAVO 500 CHARLIE 550"

- If only two values are reported, the missing one will also be identified, e.g.:
  "RVR ALPHA 650 - BRAVO MISSING CHARLIE 550".