### 	2.5. Aerodromes

| Low visibility procedures | Braking action restrictions |
| :-----------------------: | :-------------------------: |
|   CATII/III, take-offs    |             Nil             |

#### 2.5.1. CAT II/III operations at aerodromes

- RWY 17/35 and RWY 16/34 of the International Airport Heydar Aliyev are available for CAT IIIA operations. It means that it is equipped as required. Appropriate procedures for these operations are established and applied in corresponding conditions. There are the following facilities on the RWY: 
  - ILS is certificated for CAT IIIA. 
  - Lighting system is available for CAT IIIA. 
  - RVR system is automatic. 
- When carrying out CAT IIIA operations special rules and protection are applied. They are designed for aircraft protection carrying out operations in Low Visibility and removal of ILS signal disturbance. Protection of ILS signals during CAT IIIA operations dictates the necessity of being on holding position before take-off on too much considerable distance from RWY than holding position which is used during good weather. These holding positions are marked accordingly and are denoted by signals which meet the requirements of Volume I, Annex14. There are also Stop bar lights. Any failure or change of the facilities on RWY 17/35 or RWY 16/34 which is important for CAT IIIA operations will be notified by NOTAM, ATIS and ATC. CAT IIIA operations will be suspended if the ILS equipment of RWY 17/35 and RWY 16/34 does not meet CAT IIIA requirements. In that case the changed operational status of ILS will be notified by NOTAM, ATIS and ATC.
- RWY 16 of the airport Gabalais available for CAT II operations.

#### 2.5.2. Low Visibility Procedures

**Criteria for the initiation and termination of LVP**

- The preparation phase will be implemented when visibility falls below 1000M and/or ceiling is at or below 300FT and CAT II/III operations are expected.
- The operation phase will be commenced when the RVR falls to 600M or the ceiling is at or below 200FT.
- LVP will be terminated when RVR is greater than 600M and the ceiling is greater than 200FT and a progressing improvement in these conditions is anticipated.

**CAT II/III Approach and Landing**:

- Pilots will be informed by ATIS or ATC when LVP are in operation.
- Aircraft will be vectored to intercept ILS at least 10NM from touchdown.
- The localizer sensitive area will be protected when a landing aircraft is within 5NM from touchdown and when aircraft is conducting takeoff. ATC will provide suitable spacing between aircraft on final approach to achieve this objective.

**Low Visibility Take-Off:**

- Pilots wishing to conduct a guided take off must inform ATC on start up in order to ensure that protection of the localizer sensitive area is provided. 
- Aircraft movements on the apron must only be carried out with the direction of a marshaller.

#### 2.5.3. Friction coefficient

- The airdrome Operational Service is using telegram format for data transmission which are delivered to the AIS for the further dissemination. The extent of ice, snow and/or slush on a runway is reported on the basis of an estimate of the covered area and given in percentage of the total area of the runway, in accordance with the following:
  - 10% 10% or less is covered;
  - 25% 11 – 25% of the RWY is covered;
  - 50% 26 – 50% of the RWY is covered;
  - 100% more than 50% of the RWY is covered. 
- Information on braking action will be given in terms of Friction numbers (friction coefficients indicated with two digits, 0 and decimal symbol being omitted) when based on measurements. In addition the kind of measuring device used will be reported. When braking action is estimated plain language will be used. 
- In MOTNE– transmissions, a special code will be used.
