### 	2.5. Aerodromes

| Low visibility procedures | Breaking action restrictions |
| :-----------------------: | :--------------------------: |
|       CATII, CATIII       |             Nil              |

#### 2.5.1. Low visibility procedures

During Category II and III operations a "Follow Me" vehicle will be available.

ILS facilities available at UAE Airports are as follows:

| OMAA: | RWY 31L CAT IIIB, RWY 31R CAT IIIB, RWY 13L CAT IIIB, RWY 13R CAT I |
| ----- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| OMAD: | RWY 31 CAT I                                                 |
| OMAL  | RWY 01 CAT I                                                 |
| OMDB: | RWY 12L CAT IIIB, RWY 30R CAT IIIB, RWY 12R CAT IIIB, RWY 30L CAT IIIB |
| OMDW: | RWY 12 CAT IIIB, RWY 30 CAT IIIB, RWY 31 CAT I               |
| OMFJ: | RWY 29 CAT I                                                 |
| OMRK: | RWY 34 CAT I                                                 |
| OMSJ: | RWY 12 CAT I, RWY 30 CAT I                                   |

Notes: Equipment performance values published in the AD section do not necessarily indicate approach category available.

Current information concerning surface wind and RVR is immediately available from ATC and significant changes will be reported in accordance with the provisions of Doc 4444 PANS - ATM.

Any changes in the operational status expected to last more than one hour will be promulgated by NOTAM and pilots will be advised accordingly by ATIS or on initial contact with ATC.

Pilots who intend to carry out a CAT II/III approach will use the phraseology “REQUEST CAT II/III APPROACH” on initial contact with the appropriate approach unit.

Low visibility procedures will be applied by ATC during CAT II/III operations. A clearance to carry out a CAT II/III approach implies solely that these procedures have been implemented and that the ground based equipment meets the requirements for the cleared category of ILS approach. The approach clearance does not imply the authorisation 

While low visibility procedures are in force the applicable ATIS will broadcast the following message :

“LOW VISIBILITY OPERATIONS IN FORCE, USE CAT II/III HOLDING POINTS”

Pilots carrying out practice CAT II/III approaches are cautioned that ILS critical and sensitive areas are not protected to CAT II/III standards unless low visibility procedures are in force.

#### 2.5.2. Breaking action

Friction measurement is carried out by vehicle.

Due to high ambient temperatures and low rainfall runways are prone to a build up of rubber deposits in the touch - down area. Caution should be exercised due to reduced braking action in these areas when there is moisture on the runways.



