### 	2.2. Altimeter setting

The altimeter setting procedures in use generally conform to those contained in ICAO Doc 8168, Vol I, Part 6 and some are given in full below

|           Position           | Altimeter pressure  |  Altitude report  |
| :--------------------------: | :-----------------: | :---------------: |
|    Below transition level    | QNH, QFE on request |       Feet        |
| At or above transition level |   QNE (Standard)    | Flight Level (FL) |

Transition  altitudes  are  given  on  the  instrument  Approach Charts. QNH reports and temperature information for use indetermining adequate terrain clearance are provided in MET broadcasts and are available on request from the Air TrafficServices Units. QNH values are given in hectopascals.

#### 2.2.1. Important information

4  groups  of  TA  values have established for Controlled Aerodromes. These values are 10000 FT, 12000 FT, 15000FT and 19000 FT. Transition Altitudes established for eachcontrolled aerodrome will be included in AD Sections  and related charts.

Normally  the  transition  level  specified by air trafficcontrol shall be the lowest usable flight level situated at least1000  feet above the transition altitude  of the aerodrome concerned.

A  QNH altimeter setting shall be made available to aircraft in the routine approach and landing instructions. QFE altimeter setting will be furnished on request only.

Normally the transition level specified by air traffic control shall be the lowest usable flight level situated at least 1000  feet above the transition altitude  of  the  aerodrome concerned.





