### 	2.2. Altimeter setting

|           Position           | Altimeter pressure  |  Altitude report  |
| :--------------------------: | :-----------------: | :---------------: |
|    Below transition level    | QNH, QFE on request |   Feet, meters    |
| At or above transition level |   QNE (Standard)    | Flight Level (FL) |

#### **2.2.1. Important information**

- Transition altitudes for Norwegian aerodromes are given in text form under the appropriate aerodrome.
- Prior to take-off the altimeter, or one altimeter, shall be set to the current QNH value for the aerodrome.

- During climb to and when flying at the transition altitude, the vertical position of the aircraft shall be  expressed in terms of altitudes. After passing the transition altitude, aircraft during climb shall change the altimeter setting to 1013.2 hPa,  and thereafter the vertical position of the aircraft shall be expressed  in terms of flight levels.
- Flights conducted at or above the transition level shall express the vertical  position of the aircraft in terms of flight levels.

- During descent, aircraft passing the transition level shall change the altimeter setting to the current QNH value for the aerodrome and thereafter express the vertical position in  terms of altitudes.
- An aircraft which on request has received the QFE value for the aerodrome, or the  QFE value relating to the runway threshold, shall express its vertical  position in terms of height above the aerodrome, respectively in terms of height above the runway threshold.

- Some aircraft have limitations to the QNH values that can be set into their altimeter. Typically, some of the altimeters are limited to use QNH values between 942 and 1049 hPa. If aircraft with this kind of altimeter limitations operate in controlled  airspace or in uncontrolled airspace with compulsory two-way radio communication requirements (TIZ, TIA and some HTZ), the operator shall establish procedures and quick reference tables the pilot can utilize to compensate between the altimeter QNH upper or lower range limit, and the actual QNH value

- During periods of extreme QNH-values the pilot in command shall adhere to the following procedure:
  1. Set the correct QNH in the altimeter.
  2. If 1) is not physically possible, use the operators procedure and tables for corrections.
  3. If neither 1) nor 2) is possible: Do not operate in controlled airspace or in uncontrolled airspace with compulsory two-way radio communication requirements (TIZ, TIA and certain HTZ).

- For air traffic operating on the Norwegian Continental Shelf, QNH setting areas are established. When flying within these areas, altimeter setting is based on observed local QNH from a METAR station in the area. ATS will state the QNH for the areas via radio transmission. When crossing a border between QNH areas, the altimeter setting shall be changed when informed by ATS.