### 	2.5. Aerodromes

| Low visibility procedures | Breaking action restrictions |
| :-----------------------: | :--------------------------: |
|     CAT II, take-offs     |             Nil              |

#### 2.5.1. Runway condition

- The surface condition on the RWY is described by a code/numeric code for each third of the RWY given from the THR with the lowest RWY designator. This SNOWTAM item shall always be completed, and the following code/numeric code shall be used:
  - NIL - Clear and dry
  - 1 - Damp
  - 2 - Wet or wet patches
  - 3 - Rime or frost (usually less than 1 mm)
  - 4 - Dry snow
  - 5 - Wet snow
  - 6 - Slush
  - 7 - Ice
  - 8 - Compacted or rolled snow
  - 9 - Frozen ruts or ridges

- Norway uses the following intervals for reporting the depth of contamination:
  - Dry snow 0.8 cm
  - Wet snow 0.6 cm
  - Slush 0.3 cm
  - Not measurable XX

- The RWY friction coefficient may be reported as measured or estimated. If the ground services are unable to vouch for the friction coefficient  or the conditions are outside the limits of the friction gauges, the digit 9 shall be used.

  Corresponding friction coefficient:

  - 5 Good 0,40 and greater
  - 4 Medium-Good 0,36 - 0,39
  - 3 Medium 0,30 - 0,35
  - 2 Medium-Poor 0,26 - 0,29
  - 1 Poor 0,25 and below
  - 9 Can not be estimated

#### 2.5.2. Low visibility procedures

Low visibility procedures are described in AD text pages.

#### 2.5.3. Automatic Activation of Airport Lighting

At some Norwegian airports a system for switching on approach lights and the landing area lights from  aircraft is operational. This is described in more detail on the text pages at the relevant airports.

To activate the system:

- select the appropriate VHF-frequency for the AFIS-unit
- press the transmitter button for minimum 5 seconds.

The lights will then be switched on and remain lighted for 26 minutes.

#### 2.5.4. Operating procedures using the ACN/PCN system

Normal operations:

Provided the pavement PCN is equal to or greater than the ACN of the aircraft, unlimited use of the pavement is permitted.

Overload operation limitations:

If an ACFT ACN is maximum 10% more than the surface PCN, the number of  such overload movements shall not exceed 5% of the total number of  aircraft movements. Application for such overload movements shall be  made to the local airport authority.

If the ACN for the aircraft exceeds the pavement PNC with more than 10% application should be forwarded Avinor or the Defence Headquarter.