### 	2.3. Navigation

| Coordinate system | Minimum RNAV specifications | State minimums |
| :---------------: | :-------------------------: | :------------: |
|      WGS-84       |            RNP 5            |       No       |

#### 2.3.1. Coordinate system

- An  asterisk  (*)  will  be  used  to  identify those  published  geographical  coordinates  which  either  have  been transformed into WGS-84 coordinates or are not expressed in WGS-84 and whose accuracy of original field work does not meet the requirements in Annex 11, Chapter 2 and Annex 14, Volumes I and II, Chapter 2. 

#### 2.3.2. Time System

- HOURS  AND  MINUTES:  the  day  of  24  hours  begins  at Midnight of Universal Coordinated Time (UTC).
- Universal Coordinated Time (UTC) is used in air traffic and communication services and in documents  published by the Aeronautical Information Service. In  reporting  time, the nearest full minute is used, e.g.: 12 hours 40 minutes 40 seconds is reported as 1241. In radiotelephony,seconds are rounded  to  the closest minute, unless the exact time is specifically requested.

- In Italy, local time:
  - during Summer will be two hours in advance of UTC (UTC +2 hours);
  - during  Winter will be one hour in advance of UTC (UTC +1 hour).
- The Summer time period will commence on the last Sunday of March at 0100 UTC and cease on the last Sunday of October at 0100 UTC. All times in AIP - Italia and NOTAM are UTC. Times applicable during the "summer period" are given in brackets.
- The expression "summer period" will  indicate  the part of the year in which the "daylight saving time"is in force. The other part of the year will be named the "winter period".