### Appendix-2. CONTENTS OF AN OPERATIONS MANUAL

#### 1. Organization

Recommendation — An operations manual should be organized with the following structure:

1. General;
2. Aircraft operating information;
3. Areas, routes and aerodromes; and 
4. Training

#### 2. Contents

The operations manual referred to in 1 shall contain at the least the following:

##### General

- Instructions outlining the responsibilities of operations personnel pertaining to the conduct of flight operations.

- Rules limiting the flight time and flight duty periods and providing for adequate rest periods for flight crew members and cabin crew.

- A list of the navigational equipment to be carried including any requirements relating to operations in RNP airspace.

- Where relevant to the operations, the long-range navigation procedures, engine failure procedure for ETOPS and the nomination and utilization of diversion aerodromes.

- The circumstances in which a radio listening watch is to be maintained.

- The method for determining minimum flight altitudes.

- The methods for determining aerodrome operating minima.

- Safety precautions during refuelling with passengers on board.

- Ground handling arrangements and procedures.

- Procedures, as prescribed in Annex 12, for pilots-in-command observing an accident.

- The flight crew for each type of operation including the designation of the succession of command.

- Specific instructions for the computation of the quantities of fuel and oil to be carried, having regard to all circumstances of the operation including the possibility of loss of pressurization and the failure of one or more power-units while en route.

- The conditions under which oxygen shall be used and the amount of oxygen.

- Instructions for mass and balance control.

- Instructions for the conduct and control of ground de-icing/anti-icing operations.

- The specifications for the operational flight plan.

- Standard operating procedures (SOP) for each phase of flight.

- Instructions on the use of normal checklists and the timing of their use.

- Departure contingency procedures.

- Instructions on the maintenance of altitude awareness and the use of automated or flight crew altitude call-out.

- Instructions on the use of autopilots and auto- throttles in IMC.

- Instructions on the clarification and acceptance of ATC clearances, particularly where terrain clearance is involved.

- Departure and approach briefings.

- Procedures for familiarization with areas, routes and aerodromes.

- Stabilized approach procedure.

- Limitation on high rates of descent near the surface.

- Conditions required to commence or to continue an instrument approach.

- Instructions for the conduct of precision and non- precision instrument approach procedures.

- Allocation of flight crew duties and procedures for the management of crew workload during night and IMC instrument approach and landing operations.

- Instructions and training requirements for the avoidance of controlled flight into terrain and policy for the use of the ground proximity warning system (GPWS).

- Policy, instructions, procedures and training requirements for the avoidance of collisions and the use of the airborne collision avoidance system (ACAS).

- Information and instructions relating to the interception of civil aircraft including:

  a) procedures, as prescribed in Annex 2, for pilots-in- command of intercepted aircraft; and

  b) visual signals for use by intercepting and intercepted aircraft, as contained in Annex 2.

- Details of the accident prevention and flight safety programme, including a statement of safety policy and the responsibility of personnel.

- Information and instructions on the carriage of dangerous goods, including action to be taken in the event of an emergency.

- Security instructions and guidance.

##### Aircraft operating information

- Certification limitations and operating limitations.
- The normal, abnormal and emergency procedures to be used by the flight crew and the checklists relating thereto.
- Operating instructions and information on climb performance with all engines operating.
- Flight planning data for pre-flight and in-flight planning with different thrust/power and speed settings.
- The maximum crosswind and tailwind components for each aeroplane type operated and the reductions to be applied to these values having regard to gusts, low visibility, runway surface conditions, crew experience, use of autopilot, abnormal or emergency circumstances, or any other relevant operational factors.
- Instructions and data for mass and balance calculations.
- Instructions for aircraft loading and securing of load.
- Aircraft systems, associated controls and instructions for their use.
- The minimum equipment list and configuration deviation list for the aeroplane types operated and specific operations authorized, including any requirements relating to operations in RNP airspace.
- Checklist of emergency and safety equipment and instructions for its use.
- Emergency evacuation procedures, including type- specific procedures, crew coordination, assignment of crew’s emergency positions and the emergency duties assigned to each crew member.
- The normal, abnormal and emergency procedures to be used by the cabin crew, the checklists relating thereto and aircraft systems information as required, including a statement related to the necessary procedures for the coordination between flight and cabin crew.
- Survival and emergency equipment for different routes and the necessary procedures to verify its normal functioning before take-off, including procedures to determine the required amount of oxygen and the quantity available.
- The ground-air visual signal code for use by survivors, as contained in Annex 12.

##### Areas, routes and aerodromes

- A route guide to ensure that the flight crew will have, for each flight, information relating to communication facilities, navigation aids, aerodromes, instrument approaches, instrument arrivals and instrument departures as applicable for the operation, and such other information as the operator may deem necessary for the proper conduct of flight operations.
- The minimum flight altitudes for each route to be flown.
- Aerodrome operating minima for each of the aerodromes that are likely to be used as aerodromes of intended landing or as alternate aerodromes.
- The increase of aerodrome operating minima in case of degradation of approach or aerodrome facilities.
- The necessary information for compliance with all flight profiles required by regulations, including but not limited to, the determination of:
  1. take-off runway length requirements for dry, wet and contaminated conditions, including those dictated by system failures which affect the take-off distance;
  2. take-off climb limitations;
  3. en-route climb limitations;
  4. approach climb limitations and landing climb limitations;
  5. landing runway length requirements for dry, wet and contaminated conditions, including systems failures which affect the landing distance; and
  6. supplementary information, such as tire speed limitations.

##### Training

- Details of the flight crew training programme.
- Details of the cabin crew duties training programme.
- Details of the flight operations officer/flight dispatcher training programme when employed in conjunction with a method of flight supervision.

