### THE NOTAM CODE

#### 1. Introduction

The NOTAM Code is provided to enable the coding of information regarding the establishment, condition or change of radio aids, aerodromes and lighting facilities, dangers to aircraft, or search and rescue facilities. The NOTAM Code is a comprehensive description of information contained in NOTAM. It serves as an important criterion for storage and retrieval of information, as well as for deciding whether an item is of operational significance or not. It also establishes the relevance of the NOTAM to the various types of flight operations and determines whether it must therefore be part of a pre-flight information bulletin. In addition, it assists in specifying those items which are subject to immediate notification processes. The NOTAM Code also standardizes the presentation of the related plain-language text required at Item E) of the NOTAM Format. Thus, the NOTAM Code is the basis for determination of the qualifiers TRAFFIC, PURPOSE and SCOPE used in Q (Qualifiers) line and the related text to appear in Item E) of the NOTAM Format.

#### 2. Composition

All NOTAM Code groups contain a total of five (5) letters. The first letter of the code group is always the letter Q to indicate that it is a code abbreviation for use in the composition of NOTAM. The letter Q has been chosen to avoid conflict with any assigned radio call sign.

The second and third letters identify the subject reported upon and the fourth and fifth letters denote its status of operation. The code identifying the subject or denoting its status of operation is, whenever possible, self-evident. Where more than one subject could be identified by the same self-evident code, the most important subject is chosen.

If the subject of the NOTAM is not listed in the NOTAM Code, insert “XX” as the second and third letters.

If the condition of the subject is not listed in the NOTAM Code, insert “XX” as the fourth and fifth letters.

When a NOTAM is issued containing a checklist of valid NOTAM, use KKKK as the second, third, fourth and fifth letters.

When a NOTAM containing operationally significant information and when it is used to announce the existence of AIRAC AIP amendments or supplements (trigger NOTAM), insert “TT” as the fourth and fifth letters.

***Classification by subject (second and third letters)***

Facilities, services and other information which require coding have been classified by subject into sections and subsections. The second letter of the code group, which may be any letter of the alphabet except Q, indicates the subject subsections as follows:

*AGA (Aerodromes)*

- .....  LIGHTING facilities —L
- .....  MOVEMENT and landing area —M
- .....  FACILITIES and services —F

*ATM (Air Traffic Management)*

- .....  AIRSPACE organization —A
- .....  air traffic and VOLMET SERVICES —S
- .....  air traffic PROCEDURES —P

*CNS (Communications, Navigation and Surveillance)*

- .....  COMMUNICA TION and radar facilities —C
- .....  INSTRUMENT and microwave landing systems —I
- .....  GNSS services —G
- .....  terminal and en-route NA VIGA TION facilities —N

*Navigation Warnings*

- .....  airspace RESTRICTIONS —R
- .....  WARNINGS —W

*Other Information*

- .....  OTHER information —O

***Classification by status (fourth and fifth letters)***

The fourth letter of the code group, which may be any letter of the alphabet except Q, indicates status subsections as follows:

A - AVAILABILITY

C - CHANGES

H - HAZARD conditions

L - LIMITATIONS

XX - Other

The following fourth and fifth letters of the NOTAM Code should be used in NOTAM cancellations:

AK: RESUMED NORMAL OPERATION

AL: OPERATIVE (OR REOPERATIVE) SUBJECT TO PREVIOUSLY PUBLISHED LIMITATIONS/CONDITIONS 

AO: OPERATIONAL

CC: COMPLETED

XX: PLAIN LANGUAGE

