### ARRIVAL SEGMENT

#### 1. Purpose

A standard instrument arrival (STAR) route permits transition from the en-route phase to the approach phase. 

When necessary or where an operational advantage is obtained, arrival routes from the en-route phase to a fix or facility used in the procedure are published.

#### 2. Protection of the arrival segment

The width of the protection area decreases from the “en-route” value until the “initial approach” value with a maximum convergence angle of 30° each side of the axis.

This convergence begins at 46 km (25 NM) before the initial approach fix (IAF) if the length of the arrival route is greater than or equal to 46 km (25 NM). It begins at the starting point of the arrival route if the length of the arrival route is less than 46 km (25 NM).

The arrival route normally ends at the IAF. Omnidirectional or sector arrivals can be provided taking into account minimum sector altitudes (MSA).

#### 3. Minimum Sector Altitudes (MSA)/Terminal Arrival Altitudes (TAA)

Minimum sector altitudes or terminal arrival altitudes are established for each aerodrome and provide at least 300 m (1 000 ft) obstacle clearance within 46 km (25 NM) of the navigation aid, initial approach fix or intermediate fix associated with the approach procedure for that aerodrome.

#### 4. Terminal Area Radar (TAR)

When terminal area radar is employed, the aircraft is vectored to a fix, or onto the intermediate or final approach track, at a point where the approach may be continued by the pilot by referring to the instrument approach chart.