### 	2.2. Altimeter setting

|           Position           |  Altimeter pressure  |  Altitude report  |
| :--------------------------: | :------------------: | :---------------: |
|    Below transition level    | QNH (QFE on request) |       Feet        |
| At or above transition level |    QNE (Standard)    | Flight Level (FL) |

#### 2.2.1. Important information

- Altimeter settings provided shall be rounded down to the nearest lower whole hectopascal (hPa).

- For flight in the vicinity of the aerodrome the vertical position of aircraft shall be expressed in terms of:

  a) altitudes - at or below the transition altitude;

  b) flight levels at or above the transition level.

- An  aircraft which is number one to land and which on request has received the QFE value for the aerodrome reference point, or the QFE value relating to the runway threshold, shall express the vertical position in terms of height above the aerodrome reference point,respectively in terms of height above the runway threshold.

- The transition level shall be included in approach clearance or requested by the pilot.

- A  QNH information shall be included in approach clearances or clearances to enter the traffic circuit, and in taxi clearances for departing aircraft, except when it is known that the aircraft has already received this information.

- Information on regional QNH for flights en-route is not  provided. Published аrea minimum altitudes (AMA) are not temperature corrected and remain valid in ISA (International Standard Atmosphere) conditions only. Flight crew are advised to avoid operating at cruising levels below FL165 unless able to provide their own terrain clearance.


