### 	2.4. Communication

| Radiotelephony language |   CPDLC   |
| :---------------------: | :-------: |
|         English         | Available |

#### 2.4.1. Radiotelephony language

- The radiotelephony used in air-ground communications for air traffic services purpose is provided in: 
  - English language - for all international flights and for all flights operating within a controlled airspace
  - English or Bulgarian language - for all domestic flights operating outside a controlled airspace.

#### 2.4.2. The use of CPDLC

- CPDLC services are available, aboveFL285, as a minimum, within the airspace of Sofia ACC.
- The following CPDLC services are provided in this airspace:
  - DLIC (data link initiation capability)
  - ACL (ATC clearances and instructions)
  - ACM (ATC communications management)
  - AMC (ATC microphone check)
- CPDLC is provided only to ATN Protected Mode (PM) CPDLC equipped aircraft. Log-on from FANS1/A  or  non-PM CPDLC equipped aircraft is not supported.

- The use of CPDLC is not mandatory and is conducted at the discretion of ATC and the pilots concerned.
- Pilots should be aware that the total elapsed time for an airborne initiated CPDLC dialogue may last more  than four (4)  minutes, therefore, voice must be used for any communication requiring  an immediate response and/or action.
- Voice read-back is not required for any CPDLC instruction.
-  If  uncertainty or time critical situation arise regarding a data link message, voice communication shall always be used.