### 	2.1. Airspace description

| RVSM Airspace | Airspace classes |
| :-----------: | :--------------: |
| FL290 - FL410 |  A, B, C, D, G   |

#### 2.1.1. RVSM airspace

- RVSM shall be applicable in that volume of airspace between FL 290 and FL 410 inclusive in the Bangkok FIR.

- Before entering RVSM airspace, the pilot should review the status of required equipment. The following equipment should be operating normally:
  - two primary altimetry systems. A cross-check between the primary altimeters should be made. A minimum of two will need to agree within ±60m (±200FT). Failure to meet this condition will require that the altimetry system be reported as defective and air traffic control (ATC) notified;
  - one automatic altitude-keeping device;
  - one altitude-alerting device; and
  - one altitude operating transponder

- Air traffic services will consider suspending RVSM procedures within affected areas of the Bangkok FIR when there are pilot reports of greater than moderate turbulence. Within areas where RVSM procedures are suspended, the vertical separation minimum between all aircraft will be 2 000 FT.


#### 2.1.2. Important information

- Flight shall be conducted in accordance with the Instrument Flight Rules, even when not operating in Instrument Meteorological Conditions, when operated above FL 200.
- Airspace classification is defined all ATS routes within Bangkok FIR are as follows:
  - Class A from FL285 and above.
  - Class B from Below FL285.

#### 2.1.3. Table of cruising levels

- When complying with the table of cruising levels in Civil Aviation Board (CAB) Regulation on Rules of the air, or for VFR flight above 900 metres (3 000 feet), aircraft shall be flown at levels corresponding to the tracks shown in the following table:

|  FL  |  Feet  | Meters |
| :--: | :----: | :----: |
| 110  | 11000  |  3350  |
| 130  | 13000  |  3950  |
| 150  | 15000  |  4550  |
| 170  | 17000  |  5200  |
| 190  | 19000  |  5800  |
| 210  | 21000  |  6400  |
| 230  | 23000  |  7000  |
| 250  | 25000  |  7600  |
| 270  | 27000  |  8250  |
| 290  | 29000  |  8850  |
| 330  | 33000  | 10050  |
| 370  | 37000  | 11300  |
| 410  | 41000  | 12500  |
| 450  | 45 000 | 13 700 |
| 490  | 49 000 | 14 950 |
| etc. |  etc.  |  etc.  |

**Magnetic track from 000 degrees to 179 degrees IFR Flights**

|  FL  |  Feet  | Meters |
| :--: | :----: | :----: |
| 120  | 12000  |  3650  |
| 140  | 14000  |  4250  |
| 160  | 16000  |  4900  |
| 180  | 18000  |  5500  |
| 200  | 20000  |  6100  |
| 220  | 22000  |  6700  |
| 240  | 24000  |  7300  |
| 260  | 26000  |  7900  |
| 280  | 28000  |  8550  |
| 300  | 30000  |  9150  |
| 320  | 32000  |  9750  |
| 340  | 34000  | 10350  |
| 360  | 36000  | 10950  |
| 380  | 38000  | 11600  |
| 400  | 40000  | 12200  |
| 430  | 43000  | 13100  |
| 470  | 47000  | 14350  |
| 510  | 50 900 | 15 550 |
| etc. |  etc.  |  etc.  |

**Magnetic track from 180 degrees to 359 degrees IFR Flights**
