### 	2.2. Altimeter setting

The following altimeter setting procedures describe the method for providing adequate vertical separation between aircraft and adequate terrain clearance during all phases of flight.

|           Position           | Altimeter pressure  |  Altitude report  |
| :--------------------------: | :-----------------: | :---------------: |
|  Below transition altitude   | QNH, QFE on request |       Feet        |
| At or above transition level |   QNE (Standard)    | Flight Level (FL) |

#### 2.2.1. Important information

-  Based on current and anticipated atmospheric pressure distribution, Bangkok ACC coordinates where required the lowest flight level to be used.

-  The transition altitude for Bangkok FIR is 11000 ft.

- The transition level for Bangkok FIR is flight level 130 (FL130).

- The vertical position of aircraft operating at or below the transition altitude shall be expressed in terms of altitudes, which are determined from an altimeter set to sea level pressure (QNH).

  **Note:** This does not preclude a pilot using a QFE setting for terrain clearance purposes during the final approach to the runway.

- For all flights operating at or below the transition altitude, altimeter shall be set to the appropriate QNH derived from an available source.

- Altimeter setting is made available to aircraft in the routine takeoff and climb instructions.

- Vertical displacement of aircraft during climb is controlled by reference to altitude until passing the transition altitude above which vertical displacement is controlled by reference to flight level.

  **Note:** The word “controlled” is used in a composite sense in that a pilot will wish to fly his aircraft on predetermined flight levels or altitudes and ATS will wish to advise a pilot the availability of flight levels or altitudes: both are concerned with vertical position of aircraft.

- A QNH altimeter setting is made available in the routine approach and landing instructions.

- A QFE altimeter setting is made available on request in approach and landing clearance, but reports to ATC are to be made in altitude.

- QNH and QFE values are given in whole hectopascal or inch of mercury, but they will be provided in tenths on request for landing.

- Vertical displacement of aircraft during approach is effected by reference to flight level until passing the transition level below which vertical displacement is controlled by reference to altitude, except as provided in item below.

- After approach clearance has been issued and the descent to land is commenced, the vertical position of an aircraft above the transition level may be by reference to altitude (QNH) provided that level flight above the transition altitude is not indicated or anticipated.

#### 2.2.2 QNH for aircraft operating at or below the transition altitude

- Pilot who operating an aircraft at or below the transition altitude shall set an altimeter to the currently reported QNH of the nearest station along the route of flight, except as provide in items below.

- Pilot who operating an aircraft in a terminal control area or a terminal control zone shall set an altimeter to the currently reported QNH of the major aerodrome of that airspace, which will be given by ATC.

- When there is no appropriate available station, pilot shall set an altimeter to the elevation of the departure aerodrome until the appropriate QNH can be obtained.

  **Note:** Pressure-altitude-derived level information displayed to the controller and level received from a pilot by radiotelephony might be vary due to different pressure setting.ATC shall comply with criteria as stated in ICAO doc 4444 paragraph 8.5.5 Level information based on the use of pressure-altitude information.
