### 	2.1. Airspace description

| RVSM Airspace | Airspace classes |
| :-----------: | :--------------: |
| FL290 - FL410 |     A, C, G      |

#### 2.1.1. RVSM airspace

- A Reduced Vertical Separation Minimum (RVSM) of 300 m (1000 ft) between Flight Level 8850 m (FL290) and Flight Level 12500 m (FL410) is applicable within the airspace of the Kyrgyz Republic.
- Only RVSM approved aircraft are allowed to operate flights within the RVSM airspace.
- Only IFR flights are allowed within the RVSM airspace.
- In all cases when a non-RVSM approved aircraft is operating a flight within the RVSM airspace, a vertical separation minimum of 600 m (2000 ft) shall be applicable.
- The ATS units, after obtaining a report about the appearance of the unforeseen circumstances directly influencing the possibility to operate a flight meeting the requirements to maintain the altitude within the RVSM airspace, shall apply a vertical separation minimum of 600 m (2000 ft) between these aircraft and all other aircraft operating flights within the RVSM airspace for the time of stay of these aircraft within this airspace. Such unforeseen circumstance can be connected with the following factors:
  - worsening of operation of the equipment maintaining the assigned flight altitude, or
  - the presence of meteorological phenomena causing the turbulence in atmosphere and directly influencing the aircraft capability to maintain the Cleared Flight Level (CFL).
- The pilots shall timely inform the ATS units about the appearance of circumstances preventing to maintain the cleared flight level within the admissible deviations within the RVSM airspace.

#### 2.1.2. Airspace classes

- Classes A and C in the airspace of the Kyrgyz Republic are divided as follows:
  - Class A - from FL195 up to the upper cleared flight level en-route (inclusive), excluding the regulated prohibited, danger and restricted areas.
  - Class C – from FL155 to FL195, excluding terminal control areas, the regulated prohibited, danger and restricted areas.
  - Class C – control zone, terminal control areas
- IFR should not be applied in the class G.

#### 2.1.3 Vertical separation rules in the airspace of the Kyrgyz Republic

The following rules of vertical separation shall be applied in Kyrgyz Republic FIR/СТА:

- A foot system of measuring height and altimeter setting procedures adopted in the Kyrgyz Republic are used in take-off and landing areas at heights below transition level (during landing) and below transition height (after takeoff).
- During flights along the international airways the ICAO vertical separation system shall be used for IFR flights within the range of flight levels authorized for these airways.

**Magnetic track from 000 degrees to 179 degrees IFR Flights**

| FL   | Meters | Feet  |
| ---- | ------ | ----- |
| 010  | 300    | 1000  |
| 030  | 900    | 3000  |
| 050  | 1500   | 5000  |
| 070  | 2150   | 7000  |
| 090  | 2750   | 9000  |
| 110  | 3350   | 11000 |
| 130  | 3950   | 13000 |
| 150  | 4550   | 15000 |
| 170  | 5200   | 17000 |
| 190  | 5800   | 19000 |
| 210  | 6400   | 21000 |
| 230  | 7000   | 23000 |
| 250  | 7600   | 25000 |
| 270  | 8250   | 27000 |
| 290  | 8850   | 29000 |
| 310  | 9450   | 31000 |
| 330  | 10050  | 33000 |
| 350  | 10650  | 35000 |
| 370  | 11300  | 37000 |
| 390  | 11900  | 39000 |
| 410  | 12500  | 41000 |
| 450  | 13700  | 45000 |
| 490  | 14950  | 49000 |
| etc. | etc.   | etc.  |

**Magnetic track from 180 degrees to 359 degrees IFR Flights**

| FL   | Meters | Feet  |
| ---- | ------ | ----- |
| 020  | 600    | 2000  |
| 040  | 1200   | 4000  |
| 060  | 1850   | 6000  |
| 080  | 2450   | 8000  |
| 100  | 3050   | 10000 |
| 120  | 3650   | 12000 |
| 140  | 4250   | 14000 |
| 160  | 4900   | 16000 |
| 180  | 5500   | 18000 |
| 200  | 6100   | 20000 |
| 220  | 6700   | 22000 |
| 240  | 7300   | 24000 |
| 260  | 7900   | 26000 |
| 280  | 8550   | 28000 |
| 300  | 9150   | 30000 |
| 320  | 9750   | 32000 |
| 340  | 10350  | 34000 |
| 360  | 10950  | 36000 |
| 380  | 11600  | 38000 |
| 400  | 12200  | 40000 |
| 430  | 13100  | 43000 |
| 470  | 14350  | 47000 |
| 510  | 15550  | 51000 |
| etc. | etc.   | etc.  |

