### 	2.2. Altimeter setting

|           Position           | Altimeter pressure  |  Altitude report  |
| :--------------------------: | :-----------------: | :---------------: |
|    Below transition level    | QNH, QFE on request |   Metres, feet    |
| At or above transition level |   QNE (Standard)    | Flight Level (FL) |

#### 2.2.1. Important information

- Transition altitudes (on QNH) and transition levels (on QNE) for all aerodromes are shown on Approach Charts
- The QNH value is given in meteorological broadcasting and is also provided by ATS units on a flight crew’s request. The QNH value is indicated in hectopascal (hPa). Flight altitudes below transition level shall be assigned by ATC controller based upon QNH (QFE- on a flight crew’s request).
- Determination and maintaining the flight altitude is carried out by:
  - (QNH) - at transition height or below, during flights in the take-off and landing area;
  - aerodrome pressure (QNH), set to mean sea level upon standard atmosphere (QNH) - at transition height or below, during flights in the take-off and landing area of a high-level aerodrome when the atmospheric pressure at the runway level is less the limiting value which can be set on the pressure scale of the pressure altimeter;
  - pressure 760 mm Hg/1013.2 hPa (QNE) - during flights at or above transition level and during flights outside take-off and landing area below the lower flight level.

- When approaching the aerodrome at altitude below the transition level, the change of pressure scale of the pressure altimeter from measurement upon pressure 760 mm Hg (1013.2 hPa) to the aerodrome pressure set to mean sea level upon standard atmosphere (QNH), shall be carried out when entering the take-off and landing area.
- For en-route flight below the lower flight level the change of pressure scale of pressure altimeter from aerodrome pressure (QNH) to pressure 760 mm Hg/ 1013.2 hPa (QNE) shall be carried out when crossing the transfer of control limit established within the aerodrome area (the boundaries of take-off and landing area).
- To ensure a VFR flight is flown at altitude not below the absolute safe altitude, the flight crew before each flight shall perform calculations of the instrument safe flight height - a safe approach height and a safe height based upon pressure 760 mm Hg en-route and coordinate the flight level with ATS, which is not below the lower calculated safe flight level according to the Table of cruising levels

- Due to the fact that the units for quantities of the International System of Units (SI system), adopted by the General Conference on Weights and Measures and recommended for application by the International Legal Metrology Organization, are applied in the Kyrgyz Republic - altitudes, elevations and heights are measured in metres. Altitudes and heights can be measured in feet (ft) in the Kyrgyz Republic for providing the flights of aircraft, equipped with vertical separation systems, carrying out the measurement of altitude in non-SI units. Flight level allocation by ATS unit shall be carried out in flight level numbers.

#### 2.2.2 The rules of crossing the State border

- Crossing the state border of the Kyrgyz Republic by aircraft carrying out the international flights shall be carried out along the air corridors specially allocated for crossing the state border of the Kyrgyz Republic. The altitude and width parameters of these corridors correspond to the parameters of the airway.
- The flight crews carrying out the international flights in the Kyrgyz Republic shall maintain the radio communication in English or in Russian as in accordance with the agreements on the air communication between the Kyrgyz Republic and foreign states using the typical phraseology of radio communication between the flight crews and the controllers
- The flight crew shall request a permission for crossing the state border of the Kyrgyz Republic from an appropriate ATS unit, carrying out a direct control over the air traffic, at least 10 minutes prior to crossing the state border of the Kyrgyz Republic. At that the flight crew shall report its call sign (flight number), position, flight level (altitude) and estimated time of crossing the state border of the Kyrgyz Republic, and when operating single flights - also the number of permission for crossing the state border of the Kyrgyz Republic.
- When there are direct communication channels between the ATS unit of the Kyrgyz Republic and ATS unit of the neighbouring state, the flight crews can get a permission for crossing the state border of the Kyrgyz Republic from ATS unit, under the direct control of which they are.
- In this case a preliminary request of the flight crew for permission from ATS unit of the Kyrgyz Republic is not required. The ATS unit of the state neighbouring with the Kyrgyz Republic shall give such permission only after receiving it from the appropriate ATS unit of the Kyrgyz Republic.
- Crossing the state border of the Kyrgyz Republic without permission of the ATS centre is prohibited.
- Crossing the state border of the Kyrgyz Republic by aircraft when entering the airspace of the Kyrgyz Republic without radio communication is prohibited except for cases when radio communication failure has taken place in flight (in the presence of the permission for carrying out a flight received in accordance with the international agreements and contracts of the Kyrgyz Republic).
- If an aircraft after crossing the state border of the Kyrgyz Republic is unable to continue its flight then the crossing the state border of the Kyrgyz Republic in the opposite direction shall be carried out, as a rule, along the same route by the permission of the ATS unit.
- When crossing the state border of the Kyrgyz Republic the flight crew shall report the actual time and flight level (altitude) of crossing to the controller.

##### Crossing the boundary of the areas of responsibility of ATS units of the Kyrgyz Republic and People’s Republic  of China

- When operating flights on airways B351, L147, L728 and L141, the FIR boundary shall be crossed via CRP KAMUD at flight levels established for flights within the airspace of People’s Republic of China.
- A change of flight level shall be carried out on segment of not less than 30 km in Bishkek FIR by ATC controller’s instruction as follows:
  - for westbound flights - after crossing Urumchi FIR boundary;
  - for eastbound flights - before crossing Urumchi FIR boundary.

| **Flight levels for westbound flights** | **Flight levels for eastbound flights** |
| :-------------------------------------: | :-------------------------------------: |

| **Urumchi FIR** | **Bishkek FIR** | **Bishkek FIR** | **Urumchi FIR** |
| :-------------: | :-------------: | :-------------: | :-------------: |
|      13100      |  13100 (FL430)  |  12500 (FL410)  |      12500      |
|      12200      |  12200 (FL400)  |  11900 (FL390)  |      11900      |
|      11600      |  11600 (FL380)  |  11300 (FL370)  |      11300      |
|      11000      |  10950 (FL360)  |  10650 (FL350)  |      10700      |
|      10400      |  10350 (FL340)  |  10050 (FL330)  |      10100      |
|      9800       |  9750 (FL320)   |  9450 (FL310)   |      9500       |
|      9200       |  9150 (FL300)   |  8850 (FL290)   |      8900       |

*The rate of climb or descent to the assigned flight level shall not be less than 500 ft/min or 2.5 m/s unless otherwise instructed by ATS units.*

##### Crossing FIR boundary between the Kyrgyz Republic and CIS countries

- Crossing FIR boundary of CIS countries along the international and domestic airways shall be carried out in level flight on segment not less than 30 km before FIR crossing at flight levels established in the «Table of Cruising Levels».
- Crossing FIR boundary of CIS countries along the international, domestic airways and aerodrome corridors shall be carried out in level flight and/or in climb/descent condition by coordination with the controller of the neighbouring CIS country, in the presence of direct communication for coordination with the controller of the neighbouring CIS country if the current air situation permits.