### 	2.4. Communication

| Radiotelephony language |   CPDLC   |
| :---------------------: | :-------: |
|    English/Estonian     | Available |

#### 2.4.1. Radiotelephony language

Voice communication in the aeronautical mobile service shall be conducted in Estonian and English languages.

#### 2.4.2. The use of CPDLC

CPDLC services are available for aircraft operating within the airspace of Tallinn FIR.

The following CPDLC services are provided in this airspace:

1. DLIC (data link initiation capability)
2. ACL (ATC clearances and instructions)
3. ACM (ATC communications management)
4. AMC (ATC microphone check)

Use of CPDLC in Tallinn FIR is not mandatory and is conducted at the discretion of ATC. Voice shall remain the primary means of communication in time-critical situations.

CPDLC messages shall be answered with the least possible delay. If required, e.g. due to the downlink request message having exceeded its time limit, the pilot shall repeat the request via radiotelephony.

Voice read-back is not required for any CPDLC clearance or instruction.

***Flight plan***

Pilots intending to conduct CPDLC communications within Tallinn FIR shall insert the following in the respective items of their filed flight plan:

- Item 10a - *J1* for CPDLC ATN VDL Mode 2 capable aircraft;
- Item 18 - the indicator *CODE/* followed by the aircraft 24-bit address expressed in an alphanumerical code of six hexadecimal characters.

***CPDLC Use***

CPDLC clearance shall not be executed until the flight crew has sent a *WILCO* message in response to CPDLC clearance or instruction received. If uncertainty arises regarding a CPDLCclearance or instruction, voice communication shall always be used for clarification. CPDLC exchanges within Tallinn FIR may only be conducted when the aircraft is under the control and responsibility of Tallinn ACC.

**Warning!** CPDLC services are not available for aircraft operating within the Feeder sector or Tallinn TMA. Pilots are requested to refrain from transmitting Downlink Messages when operating in the Feeder sector or the TMA even if the CPDLC connection has not been terminated.

***DLIC Log-on***

The CPDLC designator for Tallinn FIR is EETT. The flight crew shall establish the CPDLC log-on in due time to ensure that the aircraft is communicating with the appropriate ATC unit. For aircraft departing from an aerodrome located within Tallinn FIR the log-on can be initiated on the ground. Aircraft departing from an aerodrome in close proximity to Tallinn FIR can log-on when still on the ground, if Tallinn ACC is the first CPDLC-capable unit. Log-on shall be initiated by the flight crew using their ICAO call sign as filed in the flight plan. 

Following the completion of the log-on procedure, at the convenience of ATC, a *Start-CPDLC* may be performed to enable the sending and/or receiving of CPDLC messages for a particular flight in the designated CPDLC airspace.

Irrespective of the number of sectors crossed during flight, only one log-on per flight is required within Tallinn FIR.

***ATC Communications Management (ACM)***

When an aircraft is transferred by data link to an adjacent sector/ATC unit, the pilot shall acknowledge the instruction using data link by *WILCO*, and shall then contact the next sector/ATCunit by voice communication on the instructed channel. If the pilot is unable to comply with this CPDLC instruction, they shall revert to voice communication to inform ATC.

| ATC Message Element               | Flight Crew Response |
| --------------------------------- | -------------------- |
| *CONTACT [unit name] [frequency]* | *WILCO*              |

An aircraft operating within Tallinn FIR that cannot be reached by the ATC on the appropriate voice channel may be issued the following pre-formatted Free Text CPDLC message:

*CONTACT TALLINN ACC ON VOICE CHANNEL*

No CPDLC response form the aircraft is expected and the flight crew shall contact Tallinn ACC through the appropriate voice channel.

***ATC Clearances and Instructions (ACL)***

Aircraft that has logged on and generated *"DM99 CURRENT DATA AUTHORITY"* message and for which the ATC has completed the CPDLC Start procedure may receive ATC clearances and instructions via CPDLC uplink messages. Flight crew may request changes to flight levels (climb or descent) or clearance direct to a point on their route via CPDLC downlink messages.

| ATC Message Element            | Flight Crew Response                                         |
| ------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| *MAINTAIN [level]*             | *WILCO* or *UNABLE* or *UNABLE DUE TO AIRCRAFT PERFORMANCE* or *UNABLE DUE TO WEATHER* or *STANDBY* |
| *CLIMB TO [level]*             | *WILCO* or *UNABLE* or *UNABLE DUE TO AIRCRAFT PERFORMANCE* or *UNABLE DUE TO WEATHER* or *STANDBY* |
| *DESCEND TO [level]*           | *WILCO* or *UNABLE* or *UNABLE DUE TO AIRCRAFT PERFORMANCE* or *UNABLE DUE TO WEATHER* or *STANDBY* |
| *PROCEED DIRECT TO [position]* | *WILCO* or *UNABLE* or *UNABLE DUE TO AIRCRAFT PERFORMANCE* or *UNABLE DUE TO WEATHER* or *STANDBY* |
| *FLY HEADING [degrees]*        | *WILCO* or *UNABLE* or *UNABLE DUE TO AIRCRAFT PERFORMANCE* or *UNABLE DUE TO WEATHER* or *STANDBY* |
| *SQUAWK [code]*                | *WILCO*                                                      |

| Flight Crew Message Element    |                                                     | ATC Response                         |
| ------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------ |
| *REQUEST [level]*              | *DUE TO AIRCRAFT PERFORMANCE*  or  *DUE TO WEATHER* | *WILCO*  or  *UNABLE*  or  *STANDBY* |
| *REQUEST CLIMB TO [level]*     | *DUE TO AIRCRAFT PERFORMANCE*  or  *DUE TO WEATHER* | *WILCO*  or  *UNABLE*  or  *STANDBY* |
| *REQUEST DESCENT TO [level]*   | *DUE TO AIRCRAFT PERFORMANCE*  or  *DUE TO WEATHER* | *WILCO*  or  *UNABLE*  or  *STANDBY* |
| *PROCEED DIRECT TO [position]* | *DUE TO AIRCRAFT PERFORMANCE*  or  *DUE TO WEATHER* | *WILCO*  or  *UNABLE*  or  *STANDBY* |

If the ground system receives a message that is not supported, or constitutes an error to the technical rules for CPDLC communication, flight crew will receive an automatic reply indicating the nature of the error and, if applicable, required actions. CPDLC implementation in Tallinn FIR only contains the messages listed in section 5.5. All other messages will be replied to with an error message.

***Log-off***

Log-off is automatic on leaving Tallinn FIR or when landing at an airport within Tallinn FIR, no pilot action is required.