### 	1.2. Meteorology

|        METAR         |      TAF      | VOLMET* | ATIS**  |   D-VOLMET    |    D-ATIS     |
| :------------------: | :-----------: | :-----: | :-----: | :-----------: | :-----------: |
| Every 30, 60 minutes | Every 6 hours | via VHF | via VHF | Not available | Not available |

*ATHINAI/ELEFTHERIOS VENIZELOS, THESSALONIKI/MAKEDONIA, ANDRAVIDA, RODOS/DIAGORAS, IRAKLION/NIKOS KAZANTZAKIS, KERKIRA/IOANNIS KAPODISTRIAS, LARNAKA/INTERNATIONAL, CAIRO/INTERNATIONAL, ISTANBUL/ATATURK - 127.800 MHz

**The broadcast information is updated every 30 minutes.

#### 1.2.1 Important information

- RVR automated systems are located at airports equipped with ILS CAT II or CAT I as well as some other regional airports. In these airports the RVR values are transmitted and renewed automatically. 
- At airports where an automated RVR system is not available the RVR observations are made by counting runway edge lights. Reporting scales have increments of 25 meters for RVR up to 150 meters, increment.
- The height of cloud base is estimated by sight and/or measured by ceilometer. Information on the position of the ceilometers at the aerodromes in AD subsection.
- Documentation, in detail, provided by meteorological offices, has as follows:
  - Significant Weather  Charts  (SWCs)  for  Low  Level  Flights (SFC/FL  100) are issued  every  six (6) hours  covering ATHINAI  FIR/ HELLAS.  24  and  9  hour (according  to  category) Terminal  Aerodrome  Forecasts  (TAFs)  are  issued  for  all  greek aerodromes. AIRMETs,  SIGMETs  (including  Volcanic  Ash  SIMET),  Aerodrome  WARNINGS,  WIND  SHEAR  WARNINGS  and SPECIAL  AIR-REPORTS  are  also  issued  based  on  ICAO  Annex - 3 SARPS. The above  information  is  provided upon request by MET Personnel at every airport.
  - For international flights, additional information such as Upper wind Maps and Upper air temperature Maps as well as SWCs produced by WAFC London, is available upon request.

- Transmission of SIGMET information to aircraft should be at the initiative of the appropriate air traffic services unit, by  the preferred  method  of  directed  transmission  followed  by  acknowledgement  or  by  general  call  when  the  number  of  aircraft would render the preferred method impracticable.
- SIGMET information transmitted to aircraft should cover a portion of the route up to 2 (two) hours flying time ahead of the aircraft.