### 	2.4. Communication

| Radiotelephony language |   CPDLC   |
| :---------------------: | :-------: |
|     English/German      | Available |

#### 2.4.1. Radiotelephony language

Voice communication in the aeronautical mobile service shall be conducted in the English language.

The German language may only be used:

- On VFR flights and for taxiing traffic on frequencies / channels designated for voice communication in the German language, or
- If the receiving person is not familiar with the English language.

#### 2.4.2. The use of CPDLC

The CPDLC (Controller-Pilot Data Link Communications) application provides a means of communication between the controller and pilot using data link for air traffic control (ATC) communication. This application includes a set of clearance/ information/request message elements that correspond to the phraseology used in radiotelephony.

CPDLC services are available for aircraft in the entire upper airspace of Germany.

The following CPDLC services are provided in this airspace: 

1. **DLIC** (data link initiation capability)

2. **ACL** (ATC clearances and instructions)

   Pilots may receive the uplink messages via data link. Pilots may request changes to flight levels (climb or descend) via data link or a direct clearance to a point on their route.

3. **ACM** (ATC communications management)

   Pilots shall respond to an ATC instruction to change frequency with WILCO. If unable to comply with this data link instruction, the pilot shall revert to voice communication to inform ATC.

   When an aircraft has been transferred by data link to an adjacent sector/ATSU, the pilot shall acknowledge the data link instruction with WILCO, and shall then contact the next sector/ATSU by voice communication on the frequency given.

4. **AMC** (ATC microphone check)

   A "check stuck microphone" instruction may be sent by ATC in cases where an aircraft is inadvertently blocking the radio frequency.

   Aircraft equipped for FANS 1/A+ (future air navigation system) are expected to respond to this instruction with ROGER.

   If the "check stuck microphone" instruction relates to the radiotelephony frequency currently being used by the pilot, then the pilot shall check whether their radio equipment is causing the blockage. If the "check stuck microphone" instruction does not relate to the radiotelephony frequency being used, then no further action is required of the pilot.

The use of CPDLC is reserved for strategic clearances in this airspace and is conducted at the discretion of ATC.

In Hannover UIR (Maastricht UAC), it is mandatory for flight crews of all CPDLC-equipped aircraft included on the Link 2000+ CRO white list to log on to EDYY for safety reasons.

If the pilot or ATC is of the opinion that CPDLC should no longer be used in the given circumstances, CDPLC shall be discontinued or terminated and the other party shall be informed about this by voice communication.

To increase acceptance and use of CPDLC, it is very important to confirm and execute all CPDLC uplinks promptly.

***Flight plan***

Pilots shall file their 24-bit aircraft address in item 18 of their flight plan (CODE/(hexadecimal). To use Future Air Navigation System FANS 1/A in Maastricht, the aircraft's registration mark shall be submitted.

***CPDLC use***

In the area of responsibility of Maastricht UAC and Karlsruhe UAC, voice communication and radiotelephony instructions have priority over CPDLC instructions at all times. A clearance requested by the pilot via CPDLC should be issued via CPDLC. A clearance requested by the pilot via radiotelephony should be issued via radiotelephony.

If the controller explicitly asks for a confirmation of a CPDLC clearance via radiotelephony, pilots should use the following phrase:

Example: "CALL SIGN - CONFIRMING CPDLC CLIMB FL 370".

Clearances and frequency changes shall not be executed until a WILCO message has been sent.

If there is any uncertainty about a data link message, voice communication shall always be used.

CPDLC exchanges with a UAC (Karlsruhe or Maastricht) may only be conducted when the aircraft is under the control and responsibility of that UAC.

***DLIC log-on***

The data link address for Maastricht UAC is EDYY.

All data-link-equipped aircraft included on the Link 2000+ CRO white list which enter Maastricht UAC airspace are required to log on to EDYY as a secondary means of communication. This improves safety in air traffic during VHF frequency interference and failures, adverse weather and traffic congestion. It also mitigates the consequences of a LOST COM.

Data link capability is displayed on the screens at Maastricht; the controllers will request appropriately equipped aircraft to LOG ON.

Flight crews can expect to receive uplinks especially during periods of high traffic volume, and are requested to always confirm them as soon as possible with WILCO.

***Message restrictions***

Pilots may not use free-format free-text messages when communicating with Maastricht UAC and Karlsruhe UAC via CPDLC. Use of such free-text messages will result in an error message.

***CPDLC failure***

When CPDLC fails and communications revert to voice, all CPDLC messages outstanding shall be considered not delivered and the entire dialogue involving the messages outstanding shall be recommenced by voice.

If the pilot or ATC is of the opinion that CPDLC should no longer be used in the given circumstances, CDPLC shall be discontinued or terminated and the other party shall be informed about this by voice communication.

In the case of a scheduled shutdown or an unexpected failure of the CPDLC system, ATC will instruct all aircraft equipped with data link to return to voice communication. In the case of an onboard failure of CPDLC, the pilot shall return to voice communication and inform ATC.

***CPDLC messages***

The controller or pilot shall construct CPDLC messages using the defined message set. Pilots using CPDLC can expect the following uplink clearances and instructions:

| ATC uplink clearances and instructions | ATC uplink clearances and instructions | ATC uplink clearances and instructions |
| -------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------- |
| PROCEED DIRECT TO (point)              | CONTINUE PRESENT HEADING               | MAINTAIN (speed)                       |
| TURN (direction) HEADING (degrees)     | CLIMB TO (level)                       | MAINTAIN PRESENT SPEED                 |
| TURN (direction) (degrees)             | DESCENT TO (level)                     | MAINTAIN (speed) OR GREATER            |
| FLY HEADING (degrees)                  | CLIMB TO REACH (level) BY              | MAINTAIN (level)                       |
| RESUME OWN NAVIGATION                  | DECENT TO REACH (level) BY             | MAINTAIN (speed) OR LESS               |
| RESUME NORMAL SPEED                    | CONTACT (unit name) (frequency)        | CHECK STUCK MICROPHONE (frequency)     |
| SQUAWK (code)                          | SQUAWK ident                           | CLEARED TO (pos.) VIA (rte. clearance) |
| CLEARED (route. clearance)             | WHEN CAN YOU ACCEPT (level)            | STATE PREFERRED LEVEL                  |
| STATE TOP OF DESCENT                   | MONITOR (unit name) (frequency)        |                                        |

Pilots using CPDLC with Maastricht UAC or Karlsruhe UAC can send the following downlink requests:

- REQUEST DIRECT TO 
- REQUEST CLIMB TO (level) 
- REQUEST LEVEL 
- REQUEST DESCENT TO (level)

When using CPDLC, the maximum dialogue time is 120 seconds. CPDLC may only be used for non-time-critical requests, i.e. requests that do not require the immediate reaction of the controller. Nevertheless, as in radiotelephony, CPDLC messages shall be answered with the least possible delay. If the downlink request is cut off because the time limit was exceeded, the pilot should also repeat the request via radiotelephony.