### 	2.2. Altimeter setting

|           Position           |  Altimeter pressure   |  Altitude report  |
| :--------------------------: | :-------------------: | :---------------: |
|    Below transition level    | QNH, QFE (on request) |       Feet        |
| At or above transition level |    QNE (Standard)     | Flight Level (FL) |

#### 2.2.1. Important information

- The common transition altitude is established on the altitude at 10000 feet (3050 meters) within State border of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and also beyond the Republic of Kazakhstan borders, where the responsibility for air traffic management is placed on ATS of the Republic of Kazakhstan. Transition level (the lowest usable flight level) is determined depending on the QNH value at the aerodrome (en - route). Horizontal flights in transition layer, between the transition altitude and the transition level, are prohibited.

- Transition level (lower usable flight level) is determined depending on the QNH value at the aerodrome (along the flight route / in the area) - FL120 with QNH values at the aerodrome (along the flight route / in the area) 977.2 hPa and higher, FL130 at values QNH at the aerodrome (along the flight route / in the area) below 977.1 hPa.
- Flights in the transition layer between the transition altitude and the transition level in horizontal flight mode are prohibited.
- Determining of the transition level is provided according to the following table:

| **Transition height**  |   **QHN hPa**   | **Transition level** |
| :--------------------: | :-------------: | :------------------: |
| 10000 feet/3050 meters | 977.2 and above |        FL 120        |
| 10000 feet/3050 meters | 977.1 and below |        FL 130        |

- Transition level and the minimum value of the pressure coerced to mean sea level is reported by ATS unit if there is no (en-route) VOLMET broadcasts messages in the terminal area.
- The vertical position of aircraft during the flight at the transition altitude or below is expressed in terms of altitude. The vertical position of aircraft at the transition level or above is expressed in terms of flight levels. Crossing the transition layer, aircraft position in a vertical plane is expressed in terms of altitude when descending and in flight levels when climbing.
- Flight level zero corresponds to the atmospheric pressure level 1013.2 mbar (760 mm Hg. v.).
- Performing aviation operations on terrain where the absolute elevation of the terrain is 10,000 feet or more, flights are carried out by IFR with a variable profile at true heights of not more than 2,000 feet from the underlying surface.

- Pressure value at an aerodrome, coerced to sea level (QNH) for barometric altimeter setting are provided in ATIS and / or in the approach clearance and / or in the clearance to enter the traffic circuit.
- Vertical positioning of aircraft during approach is expressed in terms of flight levels until reaching the transition level, below which vertical positioning is expressed in terms of altitude.
- Transition level is reported to flight crew before they reach this flight level during descending (approach). Such messages may be transmitted by voice communications, ATIS broadcasts. If approach clearance is given above the transition level, this clearance shall include the transition level.