### 	2.2. Altimeter setting

|           Position           | Altimeter pressure |  Altitude report  |
| :--------------------------: | :----------------: | :---------------: |
|    Below transition level    |      QNH, QFE      |   Feet, meters    |
| At or above transition level |   QNE (Standard)   | Flight Level (FL) |

#### **2.2.1. Important information**

- A transition altitude is set for every Terminal Control Area (TMA). The transition altitude is published on the IACs of aerodromes located within the TMA limits as also on the IACs of aerodromes located below the TMA when the minimum holding altitude is above the TMA base. The transition altitude is also published on the chart (scale 1:1,000,000) issued from the Aeronautical Information Service, for VFR flights, when the transition altitude value is different from 5000 ft. The transition altitude is never less than 450 m (1500 ft) above the aerodrome.
  - a transition level is set by the office that provides approach control service, from atmospheric pressure measurements made by the aerodrome’s meteorological station.
  - the transition level is «the first flight level, multiple of 10, equal to or superior to the transition altitude», that is, the first flight level read on an altimeter set to 1013.2 hPa, encountered by an ascending aircraft after crossing the transition altitude read on an altimeter set to the local QNH.
  - the airspace between the transition altitude and the transition level is the transition layer. Its thickness lies between 0 and 299 m (0 and 999 ft) depending on the ruling atmospheric pressure.
  - the vertical position of an aircraft at or below the transition altitude is expressed in altitude, but it is expressed in flight level when the aircraft is at or above the transition level.

- The first level above the transition altitude that can be allotted to an aircraft is :
  - the transitions level (NT) if the transition altitude is not occupied,
  - level NT + 10 (transition level + 10) if the transition altitude is occupied.
- The altimeter setting is changed at latest when crossing :
  - the transition level in the case of descending aircraft,
  - the transition altitude in the case of an ascending aircraft.
- In particular, in certain cases set by the approach control center, the altimeter setting can be changed before crossing the transition level on condition that no horizontal flight above the transition altitude after starting to descend, has either been declared or considered.

- The QNH followed by the QFE (aerodrome and/or threshold) are supplied :
  - by the automatic terminal information service (ATIS) ; settings are then repeated by the air traffic control centers according to the applicable instructions.
  - by the organism responsible to provide these parameters in the absence of ATIS.
- When an aircraft has been alloted landing number one and when it is known that it is making use of the QFE to end its approach, the position of this aircraft in the vertical plane is expressed as a function of its height in relation to the QFE reference level during that part of the flight during which the QFE may be used, essentially during final approach. This height is expressed in relation to the altitude of the aerodrome.
- However, in case of IFR approaches, it is expressed in relation to the altitude of the runway threshold used in the following cases :
  - for all precision approaches ;
  - for all non precision approaches when the threshold is at more than 5 m (16 ft) below the aerodrome altitude».
- Selection of the altimeter settings used during the missed approach procedure depends on whether the procedure can or cannot be carried out below the transition altitude.
- The data for QNH and QFE transmitted to aircraft by control instructions are rounded to the immediately lower integral hPa.
