### 	2.3. Navigation

| Coordinate system | Minimum RNAV specifications | State minimums |
| :---------------: | :-------------------------: | :------------: |
|      WGS-84*      |            RNAV5            |       No       |

*****unless otherwise stated.

#### 2.3.1. RNAV

**B-RNAV airspace or RNAV route equipment**

- All aircraft shall be equipped with a Basic Area Navigation System (B-RNAV):
  - above FL 115;
  - below FL 115, on RNAV-defined routes.

**General**

- All aircraft shall be equipped with the appropriate equipment, enabling information to be used from radio navigation and/or satellite aids for which the required procedure is intended.
- However, some equipment on board enabling information to be used from radio navigation aids can be replaced by RNAV systems when it was shown that the performances of these last ones comply with criteria of replacement notified to users by the way of the aeronautical information.

**RNAV procedures**

- To follow RNAV procedures for departure (SID), arrival (STAR), holding pattern and instrument approach (initial, intermediate and final missed approach), all aircraft shall be equipped with an Area Navigation System RNAV complying with the required specification of navigation notified to users by the way of the aeronautical information.
- The published RNAV procedure can require that the performance of the RNAV system is realized by means of specific sensors (ex: GNSS or DME/DME/IRU).
- In every case, procedures published as available for RNAV-1 and for PRNAV exclude aircraft authorized for P-RNAV with only sensor VORDME.
- To follow a RNAV approach procedure (GNSS) (initial, intermediate, final and missed approach), the aircraft must be equipped with a RNAV system (GNSS ) certified in compliance with the RNP specification (APCH) of the “Manual of the navigation” based on performances (PBN) of the ICAO (Doc 9613).

#### 2.3.2. Time System

- Reference to the coordinated universal time (UTC) has been adopted in documents issued by the AERONAUTICAL INFORMATION SERVICE - FRANCE.
- Unless otherwise stated, the schedules published in the AIP France are expressed in UTC schedules corresponding to the winter period (WIN). During the winter period, statutory schedules are obtained by adding one hour to published UTC schedules. During the summer period, it is appropriate to withdraw one hour from the published schedule to obtain the UTC schedule.
- Taking the example of a service whose opening hours are 0800-1700 in local time throughout the year, the corresponding UTC schedules are:
  - during the winter period: 0700-1600,
  - during the summer period: 0600-1500.
- The opening times are therefore 0700-1600 (UTC) in winter and 0600-1500 (UTC) in summer, which is summarized in the schedule published at the following AIP: 0700-1600 UTC (SUM: -1 HR).
- An AIC is issued annually by the SIA to communicate the schedule change dates between winter and summer time.
- Whenever legal time is being used, this will be so stated.