### 	2.4. Communication

| Radiotelephony language |   CPDLC   |
| :---------------------: | :-------: |
|   French and English    | Available |

#### 2.4.1. **Languages used**

Communications with ATS units can be held in French or English language unless the mention “French only” is specified on the relevant charts*, in which case communications shall be held in French language.

#### 2.4.2. The use of CPDLC

- The VHF Data Link (VDL) is a means of sending information between aircraft and ground stations.

- Aeronautical VHF data links use the 117.975–137 MHz band which is assigned by the International Telecommunication Union to Aeronautical mobile (route) services.

- VDL Mode 2 is being operationally implemented to support Controller Pilot Data Link Communications (CPDLC).

- The frequency 136.975 MHz is reserved on a worldwide basis to provide a common signaling channel (CSC) to the VDL Mode 2.

- Additional frequencies have been allocated:

  - 136.875 MHz only used by SITA,
  - 136.725 MHz only used by ARINC,
  - 136.775 MHz only used by SITA.
  - 136.825 MHz only used by ARINC

- Provision of CPDLC services in France is based on the requirements of the COMMISSION REGULATION (EC) n° 29/2009, revised by (EC) n°2015/310 lying down requirements for CPDLC services provision.

- Hence, CPDLC is provided only to ATN Protected Mode (PM) CPDLC equipped aircraft using VDL mode 2 sub-network. Log-on from FANS1/A or non-PM CPDLC capable aircraft are not accepted.

- CPDLC services are available above FL195 and include :

  - DLIC (data link initiation capability),
  - ACM (ATC communications management),
  - AMC (ATC microphone check),

  *ACL (ATC clearance).

  *The ACL service is only provided in airspaces controlled by Bordeaux and Brest ACC ; the processing of flight crew requests is not available. The CPDLC application provides a supplementary means of communication in non time-critical situation. Voice shall remain the primary means of communication. The decision to use either voice or CPDLC shall be at the discretion of the controller and/or pilot involved. 

- In order to use the IOC CPDLC services, aircraft operators shall file the following information in the respective items of their flight plan:

  - Item 10a – “J1” for the CPDLC ATN VDL Mode 2 aircraft capability;
  - Item 18 - the indicator “CODE/” followed by the aircraft 24-bit address expressed in the form of alphanumerical code of six hexadecimal characters.

#### 2.4.3.**DEPARTURE CLEARANCE ISSUING SERVICE THROUGH A DIGITAL DATA LINK SYSTEM (DCL)**

- A Departure Clearance Issuing Service through a Digital Data link System (DCL) is implemented on some French aerodromes.

- This service provides pilot with a data link departure clearance (DCL) within the scope of preset operational procedures.

- The reference document used in France for implementing the DCL Service is the Eurocae document ED 85 (Issue: June 1998).

- The DCL Service, implemented through the ACRAS system, uses the SITA telecommunication network (Aeronautical International Company) which complies, for this service, with the requirements meeting the recommendations specified in the document ED 85.

- For DCL service operation, the user should:

  - Use a certified on-board equipment according to the recommendations specified in the document ED 85.
  - Comply with the whole operational procedures which overcome the risks identified in the EUROCAE document ED 85.

  **Operational context**

- The DCL Service can only be applied to aircraft using Standard Instrument Departures (SID) whose specifications include level requirements.

- The DCL Service does not provide clearance revision. Any clearance modification will be made through VHF voice communication.

- Any other operational situation non-compatible with the DCL Service on an affected aerodrome (for example: De-icing situation, heavy aircraft) will be notified to users through the Aeronautical Information Service).

- The reference event to perform the departure clearance request (before the start-up time or the takeoff time) and the availability for the departure clearance issued (with a start-up clearance or not for example) will be notified to users through the Aeronautical Information Service. By default, the departure clearance request will be performed upon the start-up clearance.

  **Operational procedure**

- According to the issuing time for the appropriate departure clearance on the affected aerodrome, the pilot will send a departure clearance request “ti” minutes (refer to note) before the start-up time or takeoff time taking into account the takeoff time slot, if any.
- In case of not receiving the departure clearance “tt” minutes (refer to note) before start-up time or takeoff time, the pilot will contact the controller through VHF voice communication system and will continue the departure clearance request procedure using the same means.
- After elaboration by the ground system and validation by the appropriate controller, the departure clearance is sent to the on-board system.
- If the pilot cannot accept the content of the departure clearance received, he will then contact the controller through VHF voice communication system and will continue the departure clearance request using the same means.
- If the pilot accepts the content of the departure clearance, he will send to the ground system, as soon as possible, the acknowledge message including the whole content of the departure clearance received on-board.
- The pilot is informed of the end of the procedure by an acknowledge message. If the latter is not received within “t1” minutes before the start-up time or takeoff time, or if it is negative, the pilot will contact the controller through VHF communication system and will continue the departure clearance request procedure using the same means.
- If the ground system does not receive the acknowledge message for the transmitted clearance within “t1” minutes (refer to note) after the departure clearance has been transmitted, or if an invalid acknowledge message is received, the ground system will inform the controller. The latter will contact the pilot through VHF voice communication system and will continue the departure clearance request procedure using the same means.
- All departure clearance issued through VHF voice communication system will cancel the DCL service.

- At the latest before line up, the “takeoff runway" parameter given in the data link departure clearance will be repeated on the occasion of a voice communication control clearance.
- The pilot is required, on the first radio contact with the approach controller, to report his SID identification and the flight level to which he is climbing.

**Note:** 

The times "ti", "tt", "t1": are defined in paragraph 1.3 of ED-85. Their values are published in AIP for each affected aerodrome or, they are, as default values, those given below in brackets:

| "ti": | time from when a departure clearance request can be initiated (by default, 10 minutes before the start-up time or takeoff time according to the aerodrome). |
| ----- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| "tt": | time beyond which an air crew may still receive a voice departure clearance through voice procedure and in time, if the DCL service is not closed (by default, 3 minutes before the start-up time or takeoff time according to the aerodrome). |
| "t1": | maximum acceptable time between the transmission of the CLD message by the ground system and the back reception of the associated CDA message (by default, 10 minutes). |