### 	2.5. Aerodromes

| Low visibility procedures | Breaking action restrictions |
| :-----------------------: | :--------------------------: |
|   CAT II/III, take-offs   |             Nil              |

#### 2.5.1. **MSAW (Minimum Safe Altitude Warning) system**

- The ground warning system MSAW function is to detect and alert ATC services in case of dangerous closing of an aircraft with respect to ground surface and artificial obstacles.

-  French regulation specifies that MSAW information does not concern:

  \- VFR flights;
  \- VFR flights with special VFR clearance;
  \- IFR aircraft with transponder failure;
  \- IFR aircraft using an aerodrome for which instrument departure or approach procedures have not been published or approved;
  \- in daytime, aircraft with visual approach clearance or operating with visual ground reference;
  \- aircraft performing visual maneuvering upon completion of approach procedure.

- Once furnished with this information, it is up to the pilot to determine which action he will undertake and then to inform the ATC as soon as possible.

- In case of unsafe proximity with terrain or artificial obstacles detected by MSAW, information or instruction are transmitted to the pilot by the ATC in radio contact with the aircraft.

  - **Standard phraseology if the aircraft is not under radar guidance:**
    “TERRAIN ALERT, CHECK YOUR ALTITUDE IMMEDIATELY”.

  - **Standard phraseology if the aircraft is under radar guidance:**
    “IMMEDIATELY, CLIMB .....FEET QNH, IMMEDIATELY DUE TO TERRAIN”.

    Or

  - “IMMEDIATELY, CLIMB......FEET QNH, AND TURN (RIGHT/LEFT) HEADING...., IMMEDIATELY DUE TO TERRAIN”.

- The pilot shall read back this information, determine the action to be undertaken and inform ATC as soon as possible.

- The pilot’s attention is drawn to the fact that ATC will no longer be able to provide regulatory separation minima to the aircraft whose pilot waives a clearance following MSAW ground system message for unsafe proximity to terrain or artificial obstacles, after having been notified by ATC.

- The responsibility of the ATC controller is no longer assumed regarding the separation of this aircraft from other traffic during the execution of the actions undertaken by the pilot in command. 

- All MSAW alerts sent to a pilot may be subject to an ATC request for flight data collection from the aircraft captain concerned (Indicated airspeed, vertical speed, geographical position ...).


#### 2.5.2. Runway condition

Measurement of breaking conditions results are expressed as a coefficient whose meaning is stated in table below:

| Measured or calculated coefficient of friction | Estimated surface friction | Code  |
| ---------------------------------------------- | -------------------------- | ----- |
| 0,40 and above                                 | Good                       | 5     |
| 0,39 - 0,36                                    | Medium/Good                | 4     |
| 0,35 - 0,30                                    | Medium                     | 3     |
| 0,29 - 0,26                                    | Medium/Poor                | 2     |
| 0,25 and below                                 | Poor                       | 1     |
| Unreliable                                     | Unreliable                 | 9 (1) |

