### 	2.1. Airspace description

| RVSM Airspace | Airspace classes |
| :-----------: | :--------------: |
| FL290 - FL410 |       C, E       |

#### 2.1.1. RVSM airspace

- The airspace within the Minsk FIR between FL 290 and FL 410 inclusive is EUR RVSM. 


#### 2.1.2. Airspace classes

- **Class C.**
  IFR and VFR flights are permitted. All flights are subject to air traffic control service and IFR flights are separated from other IFR and VFR flights. VFR flights are separated from IFR flights and receive traffic information in respect of other VFR flights.
- **Class E.**
  IFR and VFR flights are permitted. IFR flights are subject to air traffic control service and are separated from other IFR flights. All flights receive traffic information when possible.

- The following elements of the airspace are classified as Class C:
  - a. CTA (FL660 / FL95);
  - b. TMAs;
  - c. CTRs.
- The airspace below FL95, except for the airspace of TMA and CTR, is classified as Class E.
  - The airspace of the upper FIR above FL660 is not classified.
  - The part of the airspace of Minsk FIR, designated for flights of state aviation, during the period of its usage, is non-classified airspace.
  - The requirements for flights within the classified airspace, are established according to the table below.

#### 2.1.3. General Free Route

-  BELFRA procedures are available within Minsk FIR (UMMV FIR) from FL275 to FL660. Operating hours of BELFRA of the Republic of Belarus (BELFRA) are H24, but this may be changed by NOTAM to meet specific operational requirements.

- During operation hours of BELFRA, foreign state aircraft flights, except for VIP flights, shall be performed only using published ATS route network.

- *Free Route Airspace (BELFRA)* F is a portion of controlled class C airspace within which flights can be planned and performed between established and published points in Minsk FIR along the trajectory that is as close as possible to the orthodromic track.

- *BELFRA entry point (E)* is а published significant point defined as FRA entry point.

- *BELFRA exit point (X)* is а published significant point defined as FRA exit point.

- *BELFRA intermediate point (I)* is a published significant point available for planning preferred trajectory, en-route level change, prohibited area avoidance or transition from BELFRA to ATS route flight.

  ***Note:** All BELFRA significant points, relevance and usage are published in ENR 4.1 and ENR 4.4. The use of unpublished significant points, defined by geographical coordinates or by bearing and distance is prohibited.*

- The flight level orientation scheme is applicable within BELFRA in accordance with ICAO documents.

  | FL over BELFRA entry points | FL over BELFRA exit points |                    FL within BELFRA area                     |
  | :-------------------------: | :------------------------: | :----------------------------------------------------------: |
  |            EVEN             |            EVEN            |                 EVEN FL for all DCT segments                 |
  |             ODD             |            ODD             |                 ODD FL for all DCT segments                  |
  |            EVEN             |            ODD             | EVEN FL from BELFRA entry point to BELFRA intermediate point, then ODD FL to BELFRA exit point |
  |             ODD             |            EVEN            | ODD FL from BELFRA entry to any BELFRA intermediate point, then EVEN FL to BELFRA exit point |

  ***Note**: *ODD is the direction of IFR cruising levels with magnetic track angle from 000° to 179° while EVEN is the direction of IFR cruising levels with magnetic track angle from 180° to 359°. Cruising levels must also be planned in accordance with flight level orientation scheme of adjacent ATS route network and/or BELFRA.*

#### 2.1.3. Table of cruising levels

**Magnetic track from 000 degrees to 179 degrees IFR Flights**

|  FL  | Meters | Feet  |
| :--: | :----: | :---: |
| 090  |  2750  | 9000  |
| 110  |  3350  | 11000 |
| 130  |  3950  | 13000 |
| 150  |  4550  | 15000 |
| 170  |  5200  | 17000 |
| 190  |  5800  | 19000 |
| 210  |  6400  | 21000 |
| 230  |  7000  | 23000 |
| 250  |  7600  | 25000 |
| 270  |  8250  | 27000 |
| 290  |  8850  | 29000 |
| 310  |  9450  | 31000 |
| 330  | 10050  | 33000 |
| 350  | 10650  | 35000 |
| 370  | 11300  | 37000 |
| 390  | 11900  | 39000 |
| 410  | 12500  | 41000 |
| 450  | 13700  | 45000 |
| etc. |  etc.  | etc.  |

**Magnetic track from 180 degrees to 359 degrees IFR Flights**

|  FL  | Meters | Feet  |
| :--: | :----: | :---: |
| 080  |  2450  | 8000  |
| 100  |  3050  | 10000 |
| 120  |  3650  | 12000 |
| 140  |  4250  | 14000 |
| 160  |  4900  | 16000 |
| 180  |  5500  | 18000 |
| 200  |  6100  | 20000 |
| 220  |  6700  | 22000 |
| 240  |  7300  | 24000 |
| 260  |  7900  | 26000 |
| 280  |  8550  | 28000 |
| 300  |  9150  | 30000 |
| 320  |  9750  | 32000 |
| 340  | 10350  | 34000 |
| 360  | 10950  | 36000 |
| 380  | 11600  | 38000 |
| 400  | 12200  | 40000 |
| 430  | 13100  | 43000 |
| 470  | 14350  | 47000 |
| etc. |  etc.  | etc.  |

