### 	2.2. Altimeter setting

|           Position           | Altimeter pressure  |  Altitude report  |
| :--------------------------: | :-----------------: | :---------------: |
|    Below transition level    | QNH, QFE on request |   Feet, Meters    |
| At or above transition level |   QNE (Standard)    | Flight Level (FL) |

#### 2.2.1. Important information

- Transition altitudes are given on the approach charts. 

- QNH reports and temperature information for use in determining adequate terrain clearance are provided in ATIS/MET broadcasts. QFE is available on request from the ATS units. QNH values are given in HPa.

- Established transition altitude within Minsk FIR is 6000 ft (1850 m) AMSL. 

- Established transition level within Minsk FIR is FL80. FL90 – if atmosphere pressure below 977.2 HPa (733 mm Hg).

- Detecting and maintaining the levels are carried out by minimum pressure based upon sea level (QNH) at the aerodromes and within Minsk FIR below transition level. 

- Flight level zero is located at the atmospheric pressure level of 1013.2 HPa (760 mm Hg). The first consecutive flight level in airspace of the Republic of Belarus is FL80.

- QNH altimeter setting is made available to aircraft in taxi clearance prior to take-off. The QFE value will be given on request only.

- QNH altimeter setting is made available in approach clearance and in clearance to enter the traffic circuit. QFE altimeter settings will be given on request only.

- During IFR flights the following vertical separation shall be applicable:

  a. below FL290 (8850 m) – 1000 ft (300 m);

  b. between FL290 (8850 m) and FL410 (12500 m):
  \- 1000 ft (300 m) – between RVSM approved aircraft;
  \- 2000 ft (600 m) between:

1. non-RVSM approved State aircraft and any other aircraft operating within EUR RVSM airspace;

2. all formation flights of State aircraft and any other aircraft operating within EUR RVSM airspace;

3. non-RVSM approved aircraft and any other aircraft operating within RVSM transition airspace;

4. aircraft experiencing a communications failure in flight and any other aircraft when both aircraft are operating within EUR RVSM airspace;

   c. above FL410 (12500 m) – 2000 ft (600 m).

- While planning the flight below the transition level the level shall be indicated as altitude (on QNH).
