### 	1.2. Meteorology

|        METAR         |       TAF        | VOLMET  |  ATIS   |   D-VOLMET    |    D-ATIS     |
| :------------------: | :--------------: | :-----: | :-----: | :-----------: | :-----------: |
| Every 30, 60 minutes | Every 3, 6 hours | via VHF | via VHF | Not available | Not available |



#### 1.2.1 Important information

- Aerodrome warnings are issued for CAT II and CAT III airports only. Aerodrome Warnings, in plain language, of meteorological conditions  which could adversely affect aircraft on the ground are issued for CAT  II and CAT III airports only.
- Forecast for take-off is not issued.
- Continuous VOLMET broadcast on very high frequencies (VHF) for some  aerodromes contain SIGMET information in addition to METAR, SPECI and  TREND forecasts.
- AUTOMETAR may be used at airports where AWOS (Automatic Weather  Observation System) is installed. The use of AUTOMETAR is approved by  CAA Norway. Following all groups of clouds AUTOMETAR will use /// (i.e: FEW040///). **NCD** - No Clouds Detected, **NDV** - No Directional Variations, **UP** - Unidentified Precipitation.

#### 1.2.2 Wind shear warnings 

- Information regarding the existence or possible existence of low level wind shear, will mainly be based on  reports from aircraft to the air traffic services/meteorological services.
- Under certain weather conditions the possible existence of wind shear may, however, be  forecast without reports from aircraft being received.
- Most of the wind shears that occur in Norway are caused by temperature-inversions at ground level. These wind shears are usually longlasting and may be detected by measuring the wind at higher levels  (mountain peaks) above the runway level.
- Observations from these wind gauges are included in the RMK field of the METAR.
- Information on forecast/reported wind shear is given on radiotelephony, and is included in ATIS broadcast at aerodromes with this service.