### 	2.3. Navigation

| Coordinate system | Minimum RNAV specifications | State minimums |
| :---------------: | :-------------------------: | :------------: |
|      EUREF89      |       RNAV 5, RNP 10        |       No       |

#### 2.3.1. Coordinate system

- Co-ordinates are expressed in EUREF89, the Norwegian realization of WGS84.
- Heights connected to EUREF89 co-ordinates are orthometric heights related to the geoid models NKG89 and NKG96, presented by the Nordic Geodetic  Commission.
- The area of application for the published co-ordinates coincides with the area of responsibility of AIS Norway, i.e. all Norwegian Flight Information Regions as well as those parts of Scottish FIR where Norway  provides air traffic services at or below FL 85, but excluding those  parts of Norway FIR and Bodø OFIR where UK provides air traffic services at or below FL 85.
- An asterisk (*) will be used to identify those published EUREF89 co-ordinates which does not meet the requirements laid down in ICAO Annex 15 and ICAO Annex 4.

#### 2.3.2. Time System

- Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) and the Gregorian calendar are used by  air navigation service and in publications issued by the Norwegian  Aeronautical Information Service. Reporting of time expressed to the nearest minute, e.g. 12:40:35 is reported as 1241.
- Norwegian standard time (winter time) is UTC + 1 hour. Norwegian daylight saving time is UTC + 2 hours. All times in AIP Norway are given in UTC related to Norwegian standard time (winter time). In order to obtain UTC when daylight saving time is in force, 1 hour must be subtracted from all times given in the AIP Norway.
- Norwegian daylight saving time commences on the night to the last Sunday in March and ends on the night to the last Sunday in October.