### 	2.4. Communication

| Radiotelephony language |   CPDLC    |
| :---------------------: | :--------: |
|         English         | Available* |

*Only Bodø OACC is currently providing CPDLC services

#### 2.4.1. Important information

**Use of ILS Localizer**

ILS localizers in Norway are of the directional types and are only to be  used within a sector of ±35° related to the direction of approach. Outside this sector erroneous indications may occur. (False courses,  some of which may be reversed and cause change in yellow/blue sector indication, low clearance, flag warning etc. on board the aircraft).

Except when ILS backcourse procedures are published, backcourses are not  flight checked and should not be used. Norwegian ILS localizers are  therefore only to be used within the approved sectors.

**Use of ILS Backcourse Procedures**

Pilots intending to fly an approved ILS backcourse procedure may request ATC  to have the glidepath transmitter switched off. This request will be  complied with if the traffic situation permits. ATC will confirm when  the transmitter is switched off.

**Descent on ILS Glide Path**

Signals from a glide path transmitter may be received in different directions  from the glide path installation. The published glide path angles for ILS installations in Norway are only valid within a sector limited by an angle of 8° either side of the front course of the ILS localizer in question. (The approved sector may be less then 8°at some locations. This will be specified in each case.) Hence, descent on the ILS glide path shall only be performed when the aircraft is heading towards the aerodrome within this sector.

In the vertical plane, glide path courses may occur above the published  glide path angles. The glide path should therefore not be intercepted  from above.

**Use of ILS Marker Beacons**

Due to topography, VHF marker beacons cannot be provided at some  aerodromes. DME stations are to some extent used as an alternative.

**Use of VOR**

VOR shall only be used as an approach aid when it is part of an approved approach procedure.

#### 2.4.2 Use of CPDLC

Bodø Oceanic support FANS based ADS-C, CPDLC and Oceanic Clearance Delivery via data link. The FANS log-on for Bodø Oceanic is ENOB. 

Within Bodø  Oceanic Control Area, several data link services for Air Traffic Control (ATC) purposes are available for suitably equipped aircraft. These  services include the pre-FANS application Oceanic Clearance Delivery (OCD), as well as FANS1/A functions such as Automatic Dependent  Surveillance Contracts (ADS-C) and Controller/Pilot Data Link  Communications (CPDLC).

**General Description**

In order for the FANS data link to work correctly the aircraft identification entered into the avionics must be precisely the same as that contained in the filed flight plan. This should be confirmed by the flight crew prior to log-on.

**Pre-FANS applications:**

Data Link Oceanic Clearance Delivery (OCD)

The OCD is a data link service that allows pilots and controllers to  exchange messages for Oceanic Clearance Request and Oceanic Clearance  Delivery using the ACARS network, according to the specifications defined on the AEEC 623 and EUROCAE ED 106.

OCD service is provided via VHF and satellite to ACARS equipped aircraft  via network service providers, ARINC and SITA. The OCD service is implemented in accordance with the standard “Data-Link Application  System Document (DLASD) for the Oceanic Clearance Data-Link Service”  ED-106A. This standard is also frequently referred to as the ARINC  Specification 623 for Oceanic Clearance.

**FANS 1/A applications**

These applications will be available after the proper establishment of a logon to the Bodø OACC. ADS contracts and CPDLC connections are automatically initiated by ground systems after receiving the AFN logon initiated by flight crews or by automatic transfer from other ATS unit.

**ADS-C**

ADS-C is a data link service for use by Bodø OACC, in which aircraft  automatically transmits via an air-ground data link, aircraft position-related data derived from on-board navigation and position fixing systems.

Bodø OACC establishes the following ADS contracts with each aircraft within its area of responsibility.

- Waypoint Event Contracts (to receive the mandatory waypoint position reports);
- Periodic Contracts (to receive periodic position reports, along a better monitoring of the flights profile);
- Lateral Deviation Event Contracts (to receive an alert whenever the aircraft is outside the cleared route path);
- Altitude Change Event Contracts (to receive an alert whenever the aircraft is not maintaining the cleared flight level).

Additionally, whenever necessary, it is possible to make an ADS Demand report, which provides the controller with the aircraft current position, level and speed.

**CPDLC**

CPDLC is a data link service that allows FANS 1/A equipped aircraft the exchange of data link messages between pilots and controllers.  Communication can be conducted via a defined message element (a  message element whose content and format are pre-determined) or via a free text message element, usually referred to as a free-text message (a message element whose content is variable, i.e. composed by sender).  Pilots shall not use a free-text message if a standard message exists  for the purpose of the required communication.

Generally, when a CPDLC aircraft is operating in an airspace beyond the range of VHF voice communications and CPDLC is available, then:

1. CPDLC will be the primary means of communication, and
2. Voice will be used as the alternate means of communication (for example, third party HF or SATCOM voice)

In airspace with VHF coverage, an ATSU may provide CPDLC service as the primary means of communication to alleviate frequency congestions or to  enable the use of automation associated with the use of CPDLC. In such airspace, VHF communication is the alternative means of communication  for CPDLC aircraft.

Bodø OACC is currently providing CPDLC services at Phase 4, as defined in the GOLD.