### 	2.2. Altimeter setting

|           Position           | Altimeter pressure |  Altitude report  |
| :--------------------------: | :----------------: | :---------------: |
|    Below transition level    |      QNH/QFE       |    Feet/Meters    |
| At or above transition level |   QNE (Standard)   | Flight Level (FL) |

#### 2.2.1. Important information

**Transition altitudes** or **transition heights** and **transition levels** are given on the instrument approach charts and STAR/SID charts. QNH or QFE reports and temperature information for use in determining adequate terrain clearance are provided in MET broadcasts and are available on request from the air traffic services. QNH or QFE values are given in hectopascals.

#### 2.2.2. Altimeter setting procedures

When an aircraft is taking off from or landing at an aerodrome, the following altimeter setting procedures are to be observed:

- At aerodromes where transition altitudes and transition levels are established.

   Before take-off, the aircraft altimeter subscale shall be set to QNH of the aerodrome; after take-off, upon reaching the transition altitude the altimeter subscale shall be set to 1013.2hPa; when an aircraft is passing through a transition level during descent, the altimeter subscale shall be set to QNH of the aerodrome.

- At aerodromes where transition heights and transition levels are established.

   Before take-off, the aircraft altimeter subscale shall be set to the atmospheric pressure at the aerodrome elevation; after take-off, upon reaching the transition height the altimeter subscale shall be set to 1013.2hPa; when an aircraft is passing through a transition level during descent, the altimeter subscale shall be set to the atmospheric pressure at the aerodrome elevation.

- At aerodromes where transition altitudes or transition heights and transition levels are not established

   Before take-off, the aircraft altimeter subscale shall be set to the atmospheric pressure at the aerodrome elevation; after take-off when the aircraft has reached a height of 600m, the altimeter subscale shall be set to 1013.2hPa. During the process of descending in the aerodrome tower control area, the aircraft shall start altimeter setting by the instruction of air traffic controller.

- At aerodromes of high elevation

   When the aircraft altimeter subscale cannot be set to the atmospheric pressure at the aerodrome elevation, it will then be set to 1013.2hPa before take-off, with the indicated altitude interpreted as zero altitude.

   When the aircraft altimeter subscale cannot be set to the atmospheric pressure at the aerodrome elevation, landing is to be made with the assumed zero altitude notified by the air traffic controller before landing.

   

