### 	2.1. Airspace description

| RVSM Airspace | Airspace classes |
| :-----------: | :--------------: |
| FL290 - FL410 |    C, D, E, G    |

#### 2.1.1. RVSM airspace

Within this airspace, the vertical separation minimum shall be:

- 300 meters (1000 feet) between RVSM approved aircraft
- 600 meters (2000 feet) between:
  - non-RVSM approved State aircraft and any other aircraft operating within the EUR RVSM airspace
  - formation flights of State aircraft and any other aircraft operating within the EUR RVSM airspace
  - an aircraft experiencing a communications failure in flight and any other aircraft, when both aircraft are operating within the EUR RVSM airspace

#### 2.1.2. Airspace Classes

##### CLASS C

IFR and VFR flights are permitted. All flights are provided with air traffic control service and IFR flights are separated from other IFR flights and from VFR flights. VFR flights are separated from IFR flights and receive traffic information in respect of other VFR flights and traffic avoidance advice on request. Continuous air-ground voice communications are required for all flights. For VFR flights a speed limitation of 250 kt indicated airspeed (IAS) applies below 3050 m (10000 ft) AMSL, except where approved by the competent authority for aircraft types, which for technical or safety reasons, cannot maintain this speed. All flights shall be subject to ATC clearance.

##### CLASS D

IFR and VFR flights are permitted and all flights are provided with air traffic control service. IFR flights are separated from other IFR flights, receive traffic information in respect of VFR flights and traffic avoidance advice on request. VFR flights receive traffic information in respect of all other flights and traffic avoidance advice on request. Continuous air-ground voice communications are required for all flights and a speed limitation of 250 kt IAS applies to all flights below 3050 m (10000 ft) AMSL, except where approved by the competent authority for aircraft types, which for technical or safety reasons, cannot maintain this speed. All flights shall be subject to ATC clearance.

##### CLASS E

IFR and VFR flights are permitted. IFR flights are provided with air traffic control service and are separated from other IFR flights. All flights receive traffic information, as far as is practical. Continuous air-ground voice communications are required for IFR flights. A speed limitation of 250 kt IAS applies to all flights below 3050 m (10000 ft) AMSL, except where approved by the competent authority for aircraft types, which for technical or safety reasons, cannot maintain this speed. All IFR flights shall be subject to ATC clearance. Class E shall not be used for control zones.

##### CLASS G

IFR and VFR flights are permitted and receive flight information service if requested. All IFR flights shall be capable of establishing air-ground voice communications. A speed limitation of 250 kt IAS applies to all flights below 3050 m (10000 ft) AMSL, except where approved by the competent authority for aircraft types, which for technical or safety reasons, cannot maintain this speed. ATC clearance is not required

#### 2.1.3. Free Route Airspace

ATC sectors as described in are part of SECSI FRA, excluding:

- PORTOROZ TMA
- MARIBOR 1 TMA
- MARIBOR 2 TMA

#### 2.1.4. Table of cruising levels

**Magnetic track from 000 degrees to 179 degrees IFR Flights**

| FL   | Meters | Feet  |
| ---- | ------ | ----- |
| 010  | 300    | 1000  |
| 030  | 900    | 3000  |
| 050  | 1500   | 5000  |
| 070  | 2150   | 7000  |
| 090  | 2750   | 9000  |
| 110  | 3350   | 11000 |
| 130  | 3950   | 13000 |
| 150  | 4550   | 15000 |
| 170  | 5200   | 17000 |
| 190  | 5800   | 19000 |
| 210  | 6400   | 21000 |
| 230  | 7000   | 23000 |
| 250  | 7600   | 25000 |
| 270  | 8250   | 27000 |
| 290  | 8850   | 29000 |
| 310  | 9450   | 31000 |
| 330  | 10050  | 33000 |
| 350  | 10650  | 35000 |
| 370  | 11300  | 37000 |
| 390  | 11900  | 39000 |
| 410  | 12500  | 41000 |
| 450  | 13700  | 45000 |
| 490  | 14950  | 49000 |
| etc. | etc.   | etc.  |

**Magnetic track from 180 degrees to 359 degrees IFR Flights**

| FL   | Feet  | Meters |
| ---- | ----- | ------ |
| 020  | 2000  | 600    |
| 040  | 4000  | 1200   |
| 060  | 6000  | 1850   |
| 080  | 8000  | 2450   |
| 100  | 10000 | 3050   |
| 120  | 12000 | 3650   |
| 140  | 14000 | 4250   |
| 160  | 16000 | 4900   |
| 180  | 18000 | 5500   |
| 200  | 20000 | 6100   |
| 220  | 22000 | 6700   |
| 240  | 24000 | 7300   |
| 260  | 26000 | 7900   |
| 280  | 28000 | 8550   |
| 300  | 30000 | 9150   |
| 320  | 32000 | 9750   |
| 340  | 34000 | 10350  |
| 360  | 36000 | 10950  |
| 380  | 38000 | 11600  |
| 400  | 40000 | 12200  |
| 430  | 43000 | 13100  |
| 470  | 47000 | 14350  |
| 510  | 51000 | 15550  |
| etc. | etc.  | etc.   |
