### 	2.4. Communication

| Radiotelephony language |   CPDLC   |
| :---------------------: | :-------: |
|         English         | Available |

#### 2.4.1. Radiotelephony language

Slovenian language may be used:

- for VFR general air traffic (GAT) in airspace E, F and G and in CTR,
- for operational air traffic (OAT) and
- for emergency flights.

Slovenian language may be used if public safety and order, especially the safety of Air Traffic, is not impaired.

#### 2.4.2. The use of CPDLC

- The CPDLC (Controller-Pilot Data Link Communications) application provides a means of communication between the controller and pilot using data link for air traffic control (ATC) communication.

- CPDLC services are available for aircraft operating within the airspace of the LJUBLJANA FIR above FL 245.

- The following CPDLC services are provided in LJUBLJANA FIR:

  DLIC (data link initiation capability)

  ACL (ATC clearances and instructions)

  ACM (ATC communications management)

  AMC (ATC microphone check)

- The use of CPDLC is conducted at the discretion of ATC and at the initiative of the pilots concerned.

- From 5 February 2020 operators shall ensure that aircraft operating GAT IFR flights in LJUBLJANA FIR above FL285 have the capability to operate the data link services defined in Annex II of Regulation EU/29/2009.

- The clearance shall not be executed until the WILCO message has been sent. If uncertainty arises regarding a data link message, voice communication shall always be used for clarification.

- If the controller is asking explicitly for a voice read back of a clearance issued via CPDLC the following phrase should be used by the pilot:

  *Example: “CALL SIGN – AFFIRM CPDLC CLIMB TO FL 370”*

- CPDLC exchanges with an LJUBLJANA ACC may only be conducted when the aircraft is under the control and responsibility of the concerned ACC.

##### DLIC Log on

- The Ground facility designator for LJUBLJANA FIR is LJLA. Log-on should be initiated 10 minutes prior to entry into LJUBLJANA FIR. For aircraft departing from aerodrome LJLJ the log-on can be initiated when the aircraft is on the ground
- Irrespective of the number of sectors crossed during flight only one log-on per flight is required within LJUBLJANA FIR.

##### CPDLC Services

- ATC Clearances and Instructions (ACL) Pilots may receive the uplink messages described via data link. Pilots may request changes to flight levels (ascent or descent) via data link or clearance direct to a point on their route.
- ATC Communication management (ACM) The pilot response to an ATC instruction to change frequency shall be WILCO. If the pilot is unable to comply with this data link instruction, he shall revert to voice communication to inform ATC.

##### Message Restrictions

- Pilots shall not use free-format free-text messages when communicating with LJUBLJANA ACC via CPDLC. Use of such free-text messages will result in an error response.

##### Network ATN

- Basis for CPDLC within ACC Ljubljana is ATN B1. Logon request ATN B1 + B2 is supported.
- Data communication via FANS 1/A is not supported.

##### CPDLC Failure

- In the case of a CPDLC failure, CPDLC clearances that have not yet been confirmed shall be repeated over radiotelephony and/or confirmed.
- If the pilot or ATC is of the opinion that CPDLC should no longer be used in the given circumstances, CDPLC shall be discontinued or terminated and the other party shall be informed about this by voice communication.
- In the case of a scheduled shut down or an unexpected failure of the CPDLC system, ATC will instruct all aircraft equipped with data link to return to voice communication. In the case of an on-board failure of CPDLC, the pilot shall return to voice communication and inform ATC.

**CPDLC Messages**

The controller or pilot shall construct CPDLC messages using the defined message set. The following uplink clearances and instructions may be expected by pilots using CPDLC:

**ATC Uplink Clearances and Instructions used by LJUBLJANA ACC**

- UNABLE / STANDBY
- CONTACT (unit name) (frequency)
- MAINTAIN (level)
- CLIMB / DESCENT TO (level)
- CONTINUE PRESENT HEADING
- FLY HEADING (degrees)
- PROCEED DIRECT TO (position)
- MAINTAIN (speed)
- MAINTAIN PRESENT SPEED
- MAINTAIN (speed) OR LESS / GREATER
- RESUME NORMAL SPEED
- SQUAWK (code)
- SQUAWK IDENT
- CHECK STUCK MICROPHONE (frequency)

**The following request and messages may be sent by pilot using CPDLC with LJUBLJANA ACC**

- WILCO / UNABLE / STANDBY
- REQUEST DIRECT TO (position)
- REQUEST CLIMB / DESCENT TO (level)
- REQUEST (level)
- REQUEST (speed)
- DUE TO WEATHER / DUE TO AIRCRAFT PERFORMANCE
- MAYDAY MAYDAY MAYDAY
- PAN PAN PAN
- SQUAWKING 7500