### 	2.3. Navigation

| Coordinate system | Minimum RNAV specifications | State minimums |
| :---------------: | :-------------------------: | :------------: |
|      WGS-84       |           RNAV 1            |       No       |

#### 2.3.1. Coordinate system

Geographic coordinates for ATS airspace, prohibited, restricted and danger areas together with international airports are based upon the World Geodetic System - 1984 (WGS 84) spheroid. Published co - ordinates meet the accuracy requirements specified in ICAO Annexes 4 and 15.

Other geographic coordinates including those for domestic airports are based upon unverified survey data. Accuracy requirements specified in Annexes 4 and 15 are not necessarily satisfied.

Coordinates based upon unverified survey data or data of unknown accuracy are marked with an asterisk

#### 2.3.2. Vertical reference system

The vertical reference system corresponds to Mean Sea Level (MSL).The selected terms used in this AIP are explained as follows:

1. GND : Refers to "the Surface of the Earth" or SFC.
2. UNL: Refers to unlimited
3. AGL/SFC: The distance measured from the surface of the Earth 
4. AMSL/MSL: The distance measured from mean sea level. Equivalent to altitude.

#### 2.3.3. Temporal reference system

Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) is used in the air traffic communication services and in documents published by the Aeronautical Information Service.

The day of 24 hours begins at midnight and is divided into hours, minutes and seconds.

In reporting time, the nearest full minute is used. Time checks to aircraft are accurate to the nearest minute only.

Local time in the United Arab Emirates is UTC plus 4 hours.

#### 2.3.4. RNAV

Airspace including ATS routes above 4,500 FT are designated RNAV 1 which requires navigation by means of area navigation equipment.

All aircraft above 5700 kg conducting commercial operations and operating within EMIRATES Controlled Airspace shall be equipped with, as a minimum, RNAV equipment meeting RNAV 1 with GNSS in accordance with the requirements set out in ICAO Doc 9613 Performance-based Navigation (PBN) Manual, UAE CAR OPS 1.653 and AMC OPS 1.653. Foreign Registered Operators' requirements shall be in accordance with CAR PART IV. Any aircraft not in compliance with the above requirements will be suspended and/or grounded from operating in EMIRATES FIR.

It is the responsibility of the operator to ensure that the required system accuracy can be achieved when planning to operate in designated RNAV airspace. Where position information derived from GPS is the only input to the RNAV system it is incumbent upon operators to confirm that the necessary coverage from GPS is provided for the intended flight.

The mandate for the carriage of RNAV1 (GNSS) equipment applies to en-route ATS Routes, holding patterns and designated feeder routes (SIDs and STARs) in/out of CTAs.

To be eligible for RNAV1 (GNSS) operations, on-board navigation equipment shall be approved for the required navigation specification and the operator shall be granted with an operational approval from the State of Operator.

#### 2.3.5. RNAV Contingency Procedures

1. Failure of RNAV1 (GNSS) capability before Departure - In case of failure or degradation of the RNAV1 (GNSS) system which is detected before departure from an aerodrome where it is not practicable to repair, the aircraft is allowed to depart under RNAV5 (to be annotated on the FDE (Flight Data Entry) and radar to monitor), and commercial flights will not be permitted back to EMIRATES FIR until fully equipped with required system (RNAV1 with GNSS). 

2. Flight Plan Procedures - Operators of such aircraft, where a failure or degradation is detected before departure, shall not insert the designators 'S' or 'R' in Item 10 of the flight plan. Since such flights require special handling by ATC in coordination with GCAA FOA, Item 18 of the flight plan shall contain RMK/RNAVINOP. Subsequently, for a flight for which a flight plan has been submitted, the old flight plan shall be cancelled and a new one filed.

   If the letter R is used, the Performance-based Navigation levels that can be met are specified in Item 18 following the indicator PBN/. Guidance material on the application of Performance-based navigation to a specific route segment, route or area is contained in the Performance-based Navigation (PBN) Manual (Doc 9613).

3. Failure of RNAV1 (GNSS) capability whilst Airborne - If, as a result of failure of the RNAV1 (GNSS) system or degradation of it below RNAV1 (GNSS), an aircraft is unable to enter mandated RNAV airspace or continue operations in accordance with the existing ATC clearance, a revised clearance shall be obtained from the ATC. Subsequent ATC action in respect of that aircraft will be dependent upon the nature of the reported failure and the overall traffic situation. Continued operation with the current ATC clearance may be possible in many situations. When this cannot be achieved, a revised clearance may be required to revert to navigation using conventional aids. ATC may also provide the aircraft with radar vectors until the aircraft is capable of resuming its own navigation.

4. Phraseology - Whenever initial contact on an ATC frequency is established the pilot shall include the phrase 'UNABLE RNAV DUE EQUIPMENT' immediately after the aircraft callsign.