### 	2.1. Airspace description

| RVSM Airspace | Airspace classes |
| :-----------: | :--------------: |
| FL290 - FL410 |    A, C, D, G    |

#### 2.1.1. Important information

- Airspace between FL290 and FL410 inclusive is EUR RVSM transition airspace. Within this airspace, the vertical separation minimum is:

- a) 300 m (1000 ft) between RVSM approved aircraft,
- b) 600 m (2000 ft) between:
  - non-RVSM approved aircraft and any other aircraft operating within the EUR RVSM airspace;
  - formation flights of State aircraft and any other aircraft operating within the EUR RVSM airspace; and
  - an aircraft experiencing a communications failure and any other aircraft, when both are operating within the EUR RVSM airspace.

- In the Spanish airspace adjacent to the NAT Region, an RVSM Transition Area has been established in order to allow transition from the NAT region to that area of the EUR region corresponding to Spain and viceversa.
- Air traffic service providers will consider suspending RVSM procedures within affected areas (South and West) in Canarias FIR and adjacent transition areas along EUR/SAM Corridor when pilot reports state turbulence greater than moderate. 
- Within areas where RVSM procedures are suspended, the minimum vertical separation between all aircraft shall be 2000 ft.

**Aircraft without RVSM operational approval from NAT Region** 

- When an aircraft without RVSM operational approval flies from NAT Region between FL290 and FL410 under any kind of exemption envisaged in this region at FL280 or below or at FL430 or above, whose destination is an aerodrome within the limits of the EUR RVSM airspace, it must leave the transition area at FL280 or below. 
- For the same type of aircraft as in the previous paragraph but whose destination aerodrome is outside the EUR RVSM airspace, these must leave the area established at FL280 or below, or at FL430 or above accordance with the requirements of the aircraft.

**Aircraft without RVSM operational approval towards NAT Region** 

- When an aircraft without RVSM operational approval flies towards NAT Region, which could operate in this NAT Region between FL290 and FL410 due to some exemption envisaged or which had requested FL430 or above entering NAT Region RVSM airspace, it will be approved to the required flight level inside the transition area, and will have to leave the area once it has established the approved level.

#### 2.1.2. Table of cruising levels

The following take precedence over the levels in the table below: 

- ATC clearances, 
- The levels published for each airway.

**Magnetic track from 000 degrees to 179 degrees IFR Flights**

|  FL  | Meters | Feet  |
| :--: | :----: | :---: |
| 010  |  300   | 1000  |
| 030  |  900   | 3000  |
| 050  |  1500  | 5000  |
| 070  |  2150  | 7000  |
| 090  |  2750  | 9000  |
| 110  |  3350  | 11000 |
| 130  |  3950  | 13000 |
| 150  |  4550  | 15000 |
| 170  |  5200  | 17000 |
| 190  |  5800  | 19000 |
| 210  |  6400  | 21000 |
| 230  |  7000  | 23000 |
| 250  |  7600  | 25000 |
| 270  |  8250  | 27000 |
| 290  |  8850  | 29000 |
| 310  |  9450  | 31000 |
| 330  | 10050  | 33000 |
| 350  | 10650  | 35000 |
| 370  | 11300  | 37000 |
| 390  | 11900  | 39000 |
| 410  | 12500  | 41000 |
| 450  | 13700  | 45000 |
| 490  | 14950  | 49000 |
| etc. |  etc.  | etc.  |

**Magnetic track from 180 degrees to 359 degrees IFR Flights**

|  FL  | Meters | Feet  |
| :--: | :----: | :---: |
| 020  |  600   | 2000  |
| 040  |  1200  | 4000  |
| 060  |  1850  | 6000  |
| 080  |  2450  | 8000  |
| 100  |  3050  | 10000 |
| 120  |  3650  | 12000 |
| 140  |  4250  | 14000 |
| 160  |  4900  | 16000 |
| 180  |  5500  | 18000 |
| 200  |  6100  | 20000 |
| 220  |  6700  | 22000 |
| 240  |  7300  | 24000 |
| 260  |  7900  | 26000 |
| 280  |  8550  | 28000 |
| 300  |  9150  | 30000 |
| 320  |  9750  | 32000 |
| 340  | 10350  | 34000 |
| 360  | 10950  | 36000 |
| 380  | 11600  | 38000 |
| 400  | 12200  | 40000 |
| 430  | 13100  | 43000 |
| 470  | 14350  | 47000 |
| 510  | 15550  | 51000 |
| etc. |  etc.  | etc.  |
