### 	2.3. Navigation

| Coordinate system | Minimum RNAV specifications | State minimums |
| :---------------: | :-------------------------: | :------------: |
|      WGS-84       |           RNAV 5            |       No       |

#### 2.3.1. Coordinate system

- All published geographical coordinates indicating latitude and longitude are expressed in terms of the World Geodetic System - 1984 (WGS-84) geodetic reference datum.
- The area of application for the published geographical coordinates coincides with the area of responsibility of the AIM/AIS Service, i.e. the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia encompassed by the Zagreb Flight Information Region.
- An asterisk (*) is used to identify those coordinates which are not expressed in terms of the WGS-84.

#### 2.3.2. Time System

- Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) is used by air navigation services and in publications issued by the AIM/AIS Service. Reporting of time is expressed to the nearest minute, e.g. 12:40:35 is reported as 1241.
- In the AIP and associated publications, the expression “summer period” will indicate that part of the year in which “daylight saving time” is in force. The other part of the year will be named the “winter period”. The “summer period” will be introduced every year on the last Sunday in MAR at 0100 UTC and it will cease on the last Sunday in OCT at 0100 UTC. Times applicable during the “summer period” are given in brackets. Local time in the Republic of Croatia is during the “winter period” UTC+1 hour, and during the “summer period” UTC+2 hours.