### **3.1. Communication failure**

|            Case             | Emergency frequency |
| :-------------------------: | :-----------------: |
| Radio communication failure |      121,5 MHz      |

#### 3.1.1. Important information

- In case of radio communication failure a captain must switch on the distress signal and  take measures to re-establish lost communication with ATS (АТС) unit directly or through other aircraft using all available facilities. In such cases, if necessary, emergency frequency 121.500 MHz may be used.


- In case of radio communication failure in all cases the flight crew must continue to transmit the established reports about aircraft position, activities, flight conditions, use all available radio communication  facilities for reception of controller's instructions.
- In case of radio communication failure immediately after take-off a captain must carry out approach according to the established instrument approach procedure and landing at the aerodrome of departure.
- If unable to land at the aerodrome of departure after take-off  (due to meteorological conditions or if aircraft mass exceeds landing mass or due to lack of conditions for fuel dumping etc.), a captain has the right:
  - If proceed to the destination aerodrome according to the instructions issued by ATS (АТС) unit;
  - to  proceed to the alternate  aerodrome at  the  flight level,  assigned  by  ATS (АТС) unit  or at  the nearest  lower level  (in  accordance  with  vertical separation rules) but not below the lower safe level. When the flight is carried out at the  lower  safe  level  aircraft  shall  proceed  to  the  alternate aerodrome at the nearest upper level.

- In case of radio communication failure during climbing to the assigned FL (altitude) a captain has the right to land at the aerodrome of departure according to the established descending procedure and approach procedure.

- If unable to land at the aerodrome of departure a captain shall take a decision to proceed to the  destination or alternate aerodrome.

- In case of radio communication failure after climbing to the FL (altitude) assigned by ATS (ATC) unit the flight to the destination aerodrome or to the alternate aerodrome located along the flight route shall be carried out at this FL (altitude) and  returning to the aerodrome of departure - at the nearest lower level.
- When the flight is carried out at  the lower safe level aircraft shall proceed to the aerodrome of departure at the nearest upper level.
- In case of radio communication failure during descending a captain must occupy the FL (altitude), assigned earlier by ATS (ATC)  unit, and carry out the flight to the landing  aerodrome at  this  FL  (altitude) with further approach according to the established instrument approach procedure. If unable to land at the destination aerodrome a captain has the right  to take a decision  to proceed to the alternate aerodrome at the lower safe level or at FL140 (FL150) or FL240 (FL250) specially established for a flight without radio communication depending on flight direction.
- In case of radio communication failure when the flight is carried out below the lower safe level the flight shall be executed at altitude assigned earlier by ATS (ATC) unit.
- Aircraft returning to the aerodrome of departure shall be carried out along the same route along which the flight was executed before radio communication failure with the exception of cases when aircraft entry into CTA (TMA) is carried out along the corridors which are not coinciding with exit corridors. In that case the flight crew shall execute the flight according to aeronautical information publications.

- In case of radio communication failure a captain must carry out descending and approaching to the regular or alternate aerodrome in accordance with data stated in aeronautical information publications exercising great caution. When there are no such data for an alternate aerodrome in aeronautical information publications, it is allowed to carry out descending for approach from abeam NDB of an alternate aerodrome.