### 	1.2. Meteorology

|      METAR       |      TAF      | VOLMET* |  ATIS   |       D-VOLMET        |  D-ATIS   |
| :--------------: | :-----------: | :-----: | :-----: | :-------------------: | :-------: |
| Every 30 minutes | Every 3 hours | via VHF | via VHF | Available (EFHK only) | Available |

*VOLMET FREQ 128.400 MHZ Aerodromes covered: Helsinki, Tampere-Pirkkala, Turku, Stockholm/Arlanda, Sankt-Peterburg/Pulkovo, Tallinn, Kuopio, Oulu, Vaasa.

#### 1.2.1 Important information

- Aerodrome warnings are normally not issued for meteorological conditions, which could adversely affect aircraft on the ground, including parked aircraft. 
- Wind shear warnings are normally not issued. Information on observed wind shear at aerodromes is included in METARs and local reports.
- Runway visual range is observed, when required, at all instrument aerodromes. At those aerodromes where automatic runway visual range measurement equipment (transmissometer or scatter meter) is not available, the observations are made by human observer.
- Runway visual range is not included in AUTOMETARs at following aerodromes: Enontekiö (EFET), Mikkeli (EFMI) and Seinäjoki (EFSI)

- Ceilometers measuring the height and coverage of cloud layers are normally placed close to both thresholds.
- In AUTOMETAR the cloud amount is determined by algorithm from ceilometer measurements. The automatic observation system is not able to observe CB clouds at Mikkeli (EFMI) and Seinäjoki (EFSI) aerodromes due to technical limitations.
- Pilots are expected to give meteorological reports according to international practise, particularly when conditions are met of which no forecast or no warning is issued.