### 	2.5. Aerodromes

| Low visibility procedures | Breaking action restrictions |
| :-----------------------: | :--------------------------: |
|     CAT II, take-offs     |             Nil              |

#### 2.5.1. Runway condition

- Where only  water is present on a runway and periodic measurements indicate that the runway  will not become slippery when wet, no measuring will take place, and the runway will be reported as being WET.
- Where available, braking action information will also be reported in ATIS messages.

- There  is  a  requirement  to  report  the  presence  of  water  within  the  central  half  of  the  width  of  a  runway.  It  is  also required to make an assessment of water depth where possible. To be able to report with some accuracy on the conditions of the runway the following terms and associated descriptions should be used:
  - Damp: the surface shows a change of color due to moisture
  - Wet: the surface is soaked but there is no standing water
  - Water patches:  significant patches of standing water are visible
  - Flooded: extensive standing water is visible
- When ice, snow or slush is present on 10% or less of the total area of a runway, the friction coefficient will not be measured and braking action will not be estimated. If in such a situation water is present, the runway will be reported WET. Where only  water  is  present  on  a  runway  and  periodic  measurements  so  indicate,  the  runway  will  be  reported  as  "WET" .

#### 2.5.2. Low visibility procedures

- Low  Visibility  Procedures  (LVP)  are  specific  procedures  applied  at  the  aerodrome  for  the  purpose  of  ensuring safe operations during Category II approaches and/or departure operations in RVR conditions less than a value of 550 M.
- RVR values are transmitted to the pilots:
  - via ATIS and at least,
  - together with approach clearance,
  - together with landing clearance or when passing 4 NM, whichever is earlier
- Pilots  will  not  be  refused  permission  to  land  or  take  off  on  “pilot’s  discretion”,  solely  because  of  bad  weather conditions.
- When indicated RVR is below 350 M and/or ceiling is below 100 FT pilots shall be informed that:“INDICATED RVR VALUES (or CEILING or RVR VALUES AND CEILING) BELOW ICAO MINIMA FOR CAT II OPERATIONS”.
- Initiation and continuation of a Cat II Approach or Low Visibility Take-Off taking into account the reported ceiling and RVR relies solely with the flight commander’s decision and should be based on State and company procedures.