### 	2.1. Airspace description

| RVSM Airspace | Airspace classes |
| :-----------: | :--------------: |
| FL290 - FL410 |     B, C, G      |

#### 2.1.1. RVSM airspace

- The airspace within Nicosia FIR between FL 290 and FL 410 inclusive is EUR RVSM airspace.

- Within RVSM airspace, the vertical separation shall be:

  a.   1000 FT (300 M) is applied between RVSM approved aircraft;

  b.   2000 FT (600 M) is applied between:

  - non RVSM approved State aircraft and any other aircraft operating within the EURRVSM airspace;
  - formation flights of State aircraft and any other aircraft operating within the EUR RVSM airspace;
  - an aircraft experiencing a communication failure in flight and any other aircraft,when both aircraft are operating within the EUR RVSM airspace. 

#### 2.1.2. Table of cruising levels

**Magnetic track from 000 degrees to 179 degrees IFR Flights**

|  FL  | Meters | Feet  |
| :--: | :----: | :---: |
|  10  |  300   | 1000  |
|  30  |  900   | 3 000 |
|  50  | 1 500  | 5 000 |
|  70  | 2 150  | 7 000 |
| 090  |  2750  | 9000  |
| 110  |  3350  | 11000 |
| 130  |  3950  | 13000 |
| 150  |  4550  | 15000 |
| 170  |  5200  | 17000 |
| 190  |  5800  | 19000 |
| 210  |  6400  | 21000 |
| 230  |  7000  | 23000 |
| 250  |  7600  | 25000 |
| 270  |  8250  | 27000 |
| 290  |  8850  | 29000 |
| 310  |  9450  | 31000 |
| 330  | 10050  | 33000 |
| 350  | 10650  | 35000 |
| 370  | 11300  | 37000 |
| 390  | 11900  | 39000 |
| 410  | 12500  | 41000 |
| 450  | 13700  | 45000 |
| 490  | 14950  | 49000 |
| etc. |  etc.  | etc.  |

**Magnetic track from 180 degrees to 359 degrees IFR Flights**

|  FL  | Meters | Feet  |
| :--: | :----: | :---: |
|  20  |  600   | 2000  |
|  40  | 1 200  | 4 000 |
|  60  | 1 850  | 6 000 |
| 080  |  2450  | 8000  |
| 100  |  3050  | 10000 |
| 120  |  3650  | 12000 |
| 140  |  4250  | 14000 |
| 160  |  4900  | 16000 |
| 180  |  5500  | 18000 |
| 200  |  6100  | 20000 |
| 220  |  6700  | 22000 |
| 240  |  7300  | 24000 |
| 260  |  7900  | 26000 |
| 280  |  8550  | 28000 |
| 300  |  9150  | 30000 |
| 320  |  9750  | 32000 |
| 340  | 10350  | 34000 |
| 360  | 10950  | 36000 |
| 380  | 11600  | 38000 |
| 400  | 12200  | 40000 |
| 430  | 13100  | 43000 |
| 470  | 14350  | 47000 |
| 510  | 15550  | 51000 |
| etc. |  etc.  | etc.  |

Regardless of the above assigned Odd or Even Flight levels magnetic tracks of the Airways or sections thereof and to avoid unnecessary changes of cruising levels, aircraft flying along the following routes are excepted and assigned as follows:

- A28 and UA28 joining points RASDA, APLON, ANANE, BETID, LOSOS, LCA, DOREN:

1. Traffic  in  the  direction  RASDA-APLON-ANANE-BETID-LOSOS-LCA-DOREN  is assigned EVEN flight levels.
2. Traffic  in  the  direction  DOREN-LCA-LOSOS-BETID-ANANE-APLON-RASDA  is assigned ODD flight levels.

- M28 joining points RASDA, APLON, ANANE, BETID, LOSOS, LCA:

1. Traffic in the direction RASDA-APLON-ANANE-BETID-LOSOS-LCA is assigned EVEN flight levels.
2. Traffic in the direction LCA-LOSOS-BETID-ANANE-APLON-RASDA is assigned ODD flight levels.

- W11 joining points LAKTO, LEDRA, VELOX:

1. Traffic in the direction LAKTO-LEDRA-VELOX is assigned EVEN flight levels.
2. Traffic in the direction VELOX-LEDRA-LAKTO is assigned ODD flight levels.

- N71 joining points LAKTO, STEPA, BIRES, LEDRA, VELOX, DESPO:

1. Traffic in the direction LAKTO-STEPA-BIRES-LEDRA-VELOX-DESPO is assigned EVEN flight levels.
2. Traffic in the direction DESPO-VELOX-LEDRA-BIRES-STEPA-LAKTO is assigned ODD flight levels.

- R18/UR18 joining points VELOX, DESPO and ALSUS, aircraft along these airways are assigned flight levels as follows:

1. Traffic in the direction VELOX-DESPO-ALSUS (North-East bound) is assigned EVEN flight levels.
2. Traffic in the direction ALSUS-DESPO-VELOX (South -West bound) is assigned ODD flight levels.

- L78 joining points STEPA, AGUZO, TUZIB, AND DESPO:

1. Traffic in the direction STEPA-AGUZO-TUZIB-DESPO (North-East bound) is assigned EVEN flight levels.
2. Traffic in the direction DESPO-TUZIB-AGUZO-STEPA (South-West bound) is assigned ODD flight levels.

- M32 joining points APLON, ESERI, PHA:

1. Traffic in the direction APLON-ESERI-PHA is assigned EVEN flight levels.
2. Traffic in the direction PHA-ESERI-APLON is assigned ODD flight levels.
