### 	2.1. Airspace description

| RVSM Airspace | Airspace classes |
| :-----------: | :--------------: |
| FL290 - FL410 |    C, D, E, G    |

#### 2.1.1. RVSM airspace

Within this airspace, the vertical separation minimum shall be:

- 1000 FT between RVSM approved aircraft;
- 2000 FT between:
  - non-RVSM approved state aircraft and any other air-craft operating within the EUR RVSM airspace;
  - formation flights of state aircraft and any other aircraft operating within the EUR RVSM airspace.

#### 2.1.2. Airspace classes

**Class C**

IFR and VFR flights are permitted. All flights are provided with air traffic control service and IFR flights are separated from other IFR flights and from VFR flights. VFR flights are separated from IFR flights and receive traffic information in respect of other VFR flights and traffic avoidance advice on request. Continuous air-ground voice communications are required for all flights. For VFR flights a speed limitation of 250 kts  indicated airspeed (IAS) applies below 3050 m (10 000 ft) AMSL, except where approved by the competent authority for aircraft types, which for technical or safety reasons, cannot maintain this speed. All flights shall be subject to ATC clearance. 

**Class D**    

IFR and VFR flights are permitted and all flights are provided with air traffic control service. IFR flights are  separated from other IFR flights, receive traffic information in respect of VFR flights and traffic avoidance advice on request. VFR flights receive traffic information in respect of all other flights  and  traffic avoidance advice on request. Continuous air-ground voice communications are required for all flights and a speed limitation of 250  kts  IAS  applies  to all flights below 3 050 m (10 000 ft) AMSL, except where approved by the competent authority for aircraft  types, which for technical or safety reasons, cannot maintain this speed. All flights shall be subject to ATC clearance.

**Class E**

IFR and VFR flights are permitted. IFR flights are provided with air traffic control service and are separated from other IFR flights. All flights receive traffic information, as far as is practical. Continuous air-ground voice communications are required for IFR  flights. A speed limitation of 250 kts IAS applies to all flights below 3 050 m (10  000  ft) AMSL, except where approved by the competent authority for aircraft types, which for technical or safety reasons, cannot maintain this speed. All IFR flights shall be subject to ATC clearance. Class E shall not be used for control zones.

In principle operation of civil aeroplanes, helicopters and gyrocopters within airspaces of airspace class  E  is permitted only with an operational transponder Mode S  including pressure altitude transmission. 

Unless instructed otherwise by an ATS-unit, during flights with these aircraft the transponder shall be set unrequested  to Code 7000 including automatic pressure altitude transmission.

**Class G**      

IFR and VFR flights are permitted and receive flight information service if requested. All IFR flights  shall  be  capable of establishing air-ground voice communications. A speed limitation of 250 kts IAS applies to all flights below 3 050 m (10 000 ft) AMSL, except where approved by the competent authority for aircraft types, which for technical or safety reasons, cannot maintain this speed. ATC clearance is not required. 

#### 2.1.3. Table of cruising levels

**Magnetic track from 000 degrees to 179 degrees IFR Flights**

| FL   | Feet  | Meters |
| ---- | ----- | ------ |
| 010  | 1000  | 300    |
| 030  | 3000  | 900    |
| 050  | 5000  | 1500   |
| 070  | 7000  | 2150   |
| 090  | 9000  | 2750   |
| 110  | 11000 | 3350   |
| 130  | 13000 | 3950   |
| 150  | 15000 | 4550   |
| 170  | 17000 | 5200   |
| 190  | 19000 | 5800   |
| 210  | 21000 | 6400   |
| 230  | 23000 | 7000   |
| 250  | 25000 | 7600   |
| 270  | 27000 | 8250   |
| 290  | 29000 | 8850   |
| 310  | 31000 | 9450   |
| 330  | 33000 | 10050  |
| 350  | 35000 | 10650  |
| 370  | 37000 | 11300  |
| 390  | 39000 | 11900  |
| 410  | 41000 | 12500  |
| 450  | 45000 | 13700  |
| 490  | 49000 | 14950  |
| etc. | etc.  | etc.   |



**Magnetic track from 180 degrees to 359 degrees IFR Flights**

| FL   | Feet  | Meters |
| ---- | ----- | ------ |
| 020  | 2000  | 600    |
| 040  | 4000  | 1200   |
| 060  | 6000  | 1850   |
| 080  | 8000  | 2450   |
| 100  | 10000 | 3050   |
| 120  | 12000 | 3650   |
| 140  | 14000 | 4250   |
| 160  | 16000 | 4900   |
| 180  | 18000 | 5500   |
| 200  | 20000 | 6100   |
| 220  | 22000 | 6700   |
| 240  | 24000 | 7300   |
| 260  | 26000 | 7900   |
| 280  | 28000 | 8550   |
| 300  | 30000 | 9150   |
| 320  | 32000 | 9750   |
| 340  | 34000 | 10350  |
| 360  | 36000 | 10950  |
| 380  | 38000 | 11600  |
| 400  | 40000 | 12200  |
| 430  | 43000 | 13100  |
| 470  | 47000 | 14350  |
| 510  | 51000 | 15550  |
| etc. | etc.  | etc.   |

