### 	2.4. Communication

| Radiotelephony language |   CPDLC   |
| :---------------------: | :-------: |
|         English         | Available |

#### 2.4.1. Radiotelephony language

English is used in radio communication between aircraft and ATC units.

#### 2.4.2. The use of CPDLC

- CPDLC services are available for aircraft within the air-space of ACC Wien and  APP Wien.
- Within FIR Wien above FL285, IFR flights shall be equipped with CPDLC. Below FL285 the use of CPDLC is  not mandatory but appreciated and is conducted at the discretion of the ATS-Unit and at the initiative of the pilots concerned.
- In the area of responsibility of ACC Wien/APP Wien voice communication and radiotelephony instructions have priority over CPDLC instructions at all times. If uncertainty arises regarding a data link message, voice  communication shall be used.
- Increased use of CPDLC is endeavoured in the area of responsibility of  ACC  Wien  / APP  Wien.  All  data  link  equipped aircraft (CPDLC ATN VDL Mode 2) are requested to log on.
- If the pilot or the ATS-Unit is of the opinion that CPDLC should  no  longer be  used in the  given  circumstances,  CDPLC shall be discontinued or terminated and the other party shall be informed about this by voice communication.
- In  the  area  of  responsibility  of  ACC Wien/APP Wien voice communication and radiotelephony instructions have priority over CPDLC instructions at all times. If uncertainty arises regarding a data  link message, voice communication shall be used.
- The following CPDLC services are provided in this airspace:

  1. DLIC (data link initiation capability)
  2. ACL (ATC clearances and instructions)
  3. ACM (ATC communications management)
  4. AMC (ATC microphone check)

- The  data link address for ACC/APP Wien is LOVV. The CPDLC connection shall be established in sufficient time to ensure  that  the  aircraft  is communicating with the appropriate ATC unit. Log-on shall be initiated by the pilot. Pilots shall log-on using their ICAO callsign as filed in the flight plan. Pilots shall not use a two-letter IATA flight ID, or insert a leading zero (0) into a callsign, as these actions will result in a failed log-on

- Log-on for  flights  departing  in LOWW can be conducted while still on ground. Irrespective of  the  number of ACC/APP Wien sectors crossed during flight, only one log-on per  flight  is  required
- Pilots may receive the uplink messages described via data link. Pilots may request changes  to  flight  levels (ascent or descent) via data link or clearance direct to a point on their route.
- The pilot’s response to an ATC instruction to change frequency shall be WILCO via  CPDLC. If  the  pilot is unable to comply with this data link instruction, he shall revert  to  voice communication to inform ATC.
- When an aircraft is transferred by data link to an adjacent sector/ATC unit, the pilot shall acknowledge the data link instruction by WILCO via CPDLC, and shall then contact the next sector/ATC unit by voice communication on the frequency given..
- When an aircraft is instructed  by  data  link  to  monitor the frequency of an adjacent sector/ATC  unit,  the  pilot  shall acknowledge the data link instruction by WILCO via CPDLC, and shall then standby on the specified frequency.
- A  "Check  Stuck  Microphone"  instruction  may  be  sent by ATC in  cases where an aircraft is  inadvertently  blocking  a radio frequency. If  the  "Check  Stuck  Microphone" instruction  relates  to  the  radiotelephony  frequency  currently  being  used,  then  the  pilot  shall check that the radio equipment is not causing the blockage. If the"Check  Stuck Microphone" instruction does not relate  to  the radio telephony frequency being used, then no further action by the pilot is required.
- Basis for CPDLC within ACC/APP Wien is ATN/FANSB+. Data communication via FANS 1A will be not supported. If an airframe logs on with both ATN B2 and ATN B1 capability, Austro Control will  offer  ATN B1 CPDLC service. If an airframe logs on with ATN B2 capability only, Austro Control will not offer any CPDLC service – neither ATN B2 nor ATN B1.
- Log off or handover to the next CPDLC unit is automatic on exiting ACC/APP Wien airspace. No pilot  action  is then required.

**CPDLC Failure**

- In the case of a CPDLC failure, CPDLC clearances that have not yet been confirmed shall be repeated over radiotelephony and/or confirmed. If the pilot or ATC is of the opinion that CPDLC should no longer be used in the given circumstances, CDPLC shall be discontinued or terminated  and  the  other  party shall  be  informed  about this by voice communication.
- In the case of a planned shutdown or an unexpected failure of the CPDLC system, ATC will  instruct  all  aircraft equipped with data link to revert to voice communication. In the case of an onboard failure of CPDLC, the pilot shall revert to voice communication and inform ATC.

**CPDLC Messages**

The controller or pilot shall construct CPDLC messages using the defined message set. The following   uplink clearances and instructions may be expected by pilots using CPDLC:

ATC Uplink Clearances and Instructions:

•  CONTACT (unit name) (frequency)

•  SQUAWK (code)•  SQUAWK ident

•  CHECK STUCK MICROPHONE (frequency)

•  MONITOR (unit name) (frequency)

•  PROCEED DIRECT TO (WAYPOINT)

•  FLY HEADING

•  CLIMB/DESCENT FL(level)

The following downlink requests may be  sent by pilots using CPDLC with ACC Wien:

•  REQUEST DIRECT TO

•  REQUEST CLIMB TO (level)

•  REQUEST LEVEL

•  REQUEST DESCENT TO (level)

When using CPDLC, the maximum dialogue  time is 120 seconds. CPDLC shall only be used for non-time-critical requests or instructions, i.e. requests that do not require the immediate reaction of the controller or the pilot. Nevertheless, as in radiotelephony CPDLC messages shall be answered with the least possible delay. If the downlink request is cut off because the time limit was exceeded, the pilot should also repeat the request via radiotelephony.