### 	1.2. Meteorology

|        METAR         |      TAF      | VOLMET  |  ATIS   |   D-VOLMET    |    D-ATIS     |
| :------------------: | :-----------: | :-----: | :-----: | :-----------: | :-----------: |
| Every 30, 60 minutes | Every 6 hours | via VHF | via VHF | Not available | Not available |

#### 1.2.1. Important Information

- Meteorological information at International Airports Heydar Aliyev, Ganja, Nakhchivan, Lenkoran,  Zagatala, Gabala and National Airport Yevlakh is provided by round the clock.
- ATIS broadcasts available for International airport Heydar Aliyev, Gabala, Ganja, Nakhchivan, Zagatala, Lenkoran, Gabala and Yevlakh.
-  Take-off forecasts are issued in the international airports Heydar Aliyev and Lenkoran. Take-off forecast contains the information about direction and speed of a surface wind, air temperature and atmospheric pressure.
- International Airports Heydar Aliyev, Ganja, Nakhchivan, Lenkoran, Zagatala, Gabala and National Airport Yevlakh information on the runway state is added to the METAR as long as weather conditions require so and continues until these conditions have ceased. This information is included in nine digit code in accordance with METAR code requirements at METARs. At International Airports Heydar Aliyev, Ganja, Nakhchivan and National Airport Yevlakh information on the runway condition is available via ATS unit on request only.
- Information of wind shear evidence, occurring between the runway level and 1600ft above based on information received from aircraft reports via ATS units is always included in METAR and local routine reports. Wind shear information is available for users via ATIS broadcasts. Information of wind shear evidence is criteria for local special report issuing and ATIS broadcast updating. A wind shear information is cancelled for all reports when any aircraft report indicates that wind shear no longer exists, or alternatively, after the elapsed time period of 30 min.
- The landing forecasts are prepared in the form of a trend forecast, as determined by regional air navigation agreement. A trend forecast consist of concise statement of the expected significant changes in the meteorological conditions at that aerodrome appended to a local routine or local special report, or a METAR or SPECI. The period of validity of a trend forecast is 2 hours from the time of the report which forms part of the landing forecast.
- A forecast for take-off is refer to a specified period of time and contain information on expected conditions over the runway complex in regard to surface wind direction and speed and any variations thereof, temperature, pressure (QNH).
- Aircraft observations are made during flight within Baku FIR as well as during the climb-out or approach phases of flight regarding to all weather phenomena, which in opinion of pilot-in-command may affect the safety and the efficiency of other aircraft operations or are not accurately forecasted. Aircraft meteorological observations shall be reported to appropriate ATS unit as soon as practicable.-Aircraft shall always report icing, moderate or severe turbulence and wind shear encountered, even if previously reported to the aircraft. Observation, which has not been possible to report during the flight, shall be reported as soon as practicable on arrival.
- Warnings for the protection of parked and moored aircraft or other equipment at Heydar Aliyev International Airport, Ganja, Gabala, Nakhchivan‚ Lenkoran, Zagatala and Gabala aerodromes will be issued if one or more of the following phenomena occurs or is expected to occur at the aerodromes:
  - strong surface wind (gusts) of 30kt and more
  - squall
  - freezing precipitation
  - heavy snow (when visibility less than 1000 m continuation more than 2 hours)
  - air temperature fall -0 ̊C and below and increase up to +40 ̊C and over.
